=== ch05-dfm-part1.pdf ===
Syntax Warning: Bad annotation destination
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

   Design For Manufacturing
                (Part 1)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                            Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

 Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability
 Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality
 Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design
 Part 4: 6-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                          3
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Definition

· Design For Manufacturing (DFM) is the process of designing
    components of high-quality products for ease of manufacturing at a
    lower cost.

 · This is done by lowering complexity,
     optimizing performance, and redefining
     the product.

 · DFM has various advantages, including
     lower production costs, higher product
     quality, and a shorter time to market.

                                                                                                                                                4
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

How do you design something for manufacturing?

As you develop your design, consider the following:
    The function of your product.
    How it will be used?
    What it will be made of?
    How long consumers will use your product?
    Will it require a warranty?
    How much it will cost to manufacture?
    Will you be able to make a profit from your product?
    etc.

                                                                                                                                               5
         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

History

· DFM has its roots in the post-World War II era
   when companies were looking for ways to
   improve their competitiveness in the global
   market.

· While manufacturers were facing with strong competition by other
   manufacturers (rivals), at the time, they were under pressure to
   reduce costs, enhance the quality of products, and increase production
   efficiency.

· In response, companies began to adopt a more systematic approach to

product design, incorporating consideration of production processes,

tooling, and other manufacturing factors into the design process.                          6
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Flow of Design Knowledge

                                                                                                                                               7
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Product
Development
Lifecycle

                                                                                                                                               8
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Why is DFM Important?

· It is usually
    accepted
    (demonstrated)
    that 70% to 80% of
    production costs
    are determined by
    design decisions.

                                                                                                                                               9
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (1/6)

 · Simplicity: The design should be kept simple with as few parts as possible and
     use straightforward shapes and structures to make production easier and
     more cost-effective.

                                                                                                                                                10
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (2/6)

 · Standardization: Whenever possible, standard components and
     manufacturing processes should be used in the design, as this can save time
     and reduce production costs.

                                                                                                                                                11
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (3/6)

 · Tolerance: Proper tolerance design is critical in ensuring that the product fits
     and functions as intended. Tolerances must be carefully considered to
     balance the need for precision with the cost of manufacturing.

                                                                                                                                                12
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (4/6)

· Material Selection: The choice of materials greatly impacts production costs
    and the final product quality. We must consider the properties of the
    materials, such as strength, durability, and manufacturability, when selecting
    the materials for a product.

                                                                                                                                               13
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (5/6)

· Automation: Automated processes
    can significantly improve production
    efficiency, reduce labor costs, and
    improve product quality. The project
    expert must carefully consider the
    type and level of automation to be
    implemented in the production
    process.

                                                                                                                                               14
                                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Principles of DFM (6/6)

· Process Integration: Integrating product design, manufacturing processes,
    and quality control are crucial in improving production efficiency and
    reducing costs. A project expert has to work closely with other professionals,
    such as industrial designers and process engineers, to ensure that the design,
    manufacturing, and quality control processes are appropriately integrated.

                                                                                                                                              15
                                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Benefits of Product Development with DFM

· Lower Manufacturing Costs
· Improved Production Efficiency
· Improved Product Quality
· Streamlined Product Development

    Process
· Better Supply Chain Management
· Enhanced Competitiveness
· Compliance with Regulations

                                                                                                                                              16
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Who is Responsible for DFM?

  · Design Engineers
  · Manufacturing

     Engineers
  · Quality Control
  · Procurement
  · Management

                                                                                                                                                17
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

How Long Does DFM Take?

 · The time required for design for
     manufacturability is determined
     by the product's complexity, the
     organization's size, and the
     resources available.

 · As a general rule, DFM is a
     continuous process that
     continues through the entire
     product lifecycle.

                                                                                                                                               18
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Other Methods Joint with DFM            Process
                                       Capability

                              Quality              6-Sigma
                              Control

                                       DFM

                              Cost of                Design for
                              Quality              Sustainability

                                       Robust
                                       Product
                                       Design

                                                                                          19
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability (DFS)

                                                                                                                        2200
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

What do you think regarding these photos?

                                                                                                                                                2211
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Electronic Waste (E-Waste)

Projected electronic waste generation worldwide from 2019 to 2030 (in million metric tons)

                                                                                                                                                2222
                                    Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

 Sustainability Definition

· Sustainability consists of fulfilling the needs of current generations without compromising
    the needs of future generations, while ensuring a balance between economic growth
    (Economic pillar), environmental care (environmental pillar),and social well-being (Social
    pillar).

                                                                                                                                                 2323
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

What Is Design for Sustainability?

· DFS (also known D4S) is a subset methodology
    under the DFX family (Design for Excellence)
    with its main focus on developing sustainable
    products.

· All of the sustainability strategies have either
    one or both of the following objectives:
         Use fewer resources
         Prefer eco-friendly alternatives

· These resources could mean raw materials, processes, systems, distribution

methods and anything else that is necessary for a product to exist.                                                 2424
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Responsible for Sustainability

· It is not right to shift all the responsibility
     to the end-user.

· Manufacturing companies and their
     designers have to take the most
     responsibility for the environmental
     effects of their products and work actively
     on designing more sustainable products.

· Consumers can make an environmental
     impact when preferring socially
     responsible products to minimize waste
     and their carbon footprint.

                                                                                                                                                2525
                                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

The Importance of Design Stage for Sustainability

· Almost all of the resource choices are
    affected by its product design stage.

· In other words, the design stage is the most
    influential in determining how a product will
    affect the environment through its raw
    materials, manufacture, distribution, usage,
    maintenance and disposal.

· Sustainable Product Policy by the European Commission states that as much as
    80% of a product's negative impact on the environment is finalized at the
    design stage.

                                                                                                                                                2626
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

The Need for Sustainability

· Sustainability in production and in the
    use of products has become
    increasingly important in the past few
    decades.

· Without sustainability, we will likely

 run out of natural resources,

 and damage environment that are
    not recoverable.

                                                                                                                     2727
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Linear Economy

· Traditionally, the economy
    has followed a straight-line
    pattern.

· This kind of system is
    highly unsustainable and
    needs to change.

· A sustainable alternative to
    this system is the circular
    economy.

                                                                                                                                               2828
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Circular Economy

· The main focus of this type of
    economic model is to reintroduce used
    parts as raw materials for new
    products.

· The intent is to move from a high-waste to a high-
    value model.

· Such a system is highly resource-efficient and
    reduces the effect of consumer demand on the
    exploration, pollution, and wastage of natural
    resources.

                                                                                                                                               2929
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Circular Economy

· The 4Rs in particular is a very effective tool in
    building a circular economy. It includes four
    principles that can be applied by almost every
    individual and have an exponential effect. These
    principles are:
       Reduce
       Reuse
       Repair
       Recycle

                                                                                                                                               3030
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles

· Using appropriate strategies can help us get closer to the concept of true
    sustainability.

· Some actionable sustainable design principles that can be implemented to
    create better designs are:

      Dematerialization
      Modular design
      Prefer renewable energy
      Migration to product-service systems
      Design for longevity
      Limit or eliminate long-distance outsourcing
      Invest in simulation

                                                                                                                                               3131
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Dematerialization

· The reduction of total material and energy throughput of any product and service,
    and thus the limitation of its environmental impact.

· There are many ways to achieve this. One way is the miniaturization of the product.
    A product with a smaller form also requires reduced packaging, storage area,
    transportation and delivery costs and minimizes carbon emissions involved in each
    of the product life stages.

                                                                                                                                               3232
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Modular design

· A modular design refers to

the use of components as

modules that can be used in

multiple products. Modules

are        predesigned

components with a specific

function. The advantages

include cheaper and easier

manufacturing, assembly,

replacement, repair and

disposal.

                                                                                             3333
         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Prefer renewable energy

· Greater reliance on

renewable alternatives,

such as wind, solar power

and      hydroelectricity

(instead of petrol, diesel,

gas and coal), propel us

towards  sustainable

development while allowing

us to maintain similar

energy usage levels.

                                                                                           3434
                                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Migration to product-
service systems

· Product service systems refer to a
     business model where the
     company provides services besides
     the product to improve their
     environmental performance and
     sales. In such systems, a company
     leases its products to the
     consumer instead of selling them
     for good.

· A great example of this practice is how IBM shifted to renting servers instead of
    selling units directly to customers, or cloud services.

                                                                                                                                              3535
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Design for longevity

· Designers have the power to maximize how long a product can be used through its design.
· Durable products can considerably relieve the pressure on the environment by reducing

    the amount of raw material and energy required to create new products.

Average lifespan (replacement cycle length) of       Lifespan of Smartphones  3636
smartphones worldwide from 2013 to 2020 (in months)
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Limit or eliminate long-
distance outsourcing

· Increasing shipping capacities have made
     freight more affordable. This has resulted
     in outsourcing manufacturing operations
     to countries with lower labor rates.

· The effect on the environment, however, is negative since the resources required to
    manufacture the product are the same either way but now, we have added several
    tones of extra emissions due to intercontinental transport (extra Greenhouse gases).

· It is important to prefer local suppliers when designing for sustainability. Besides
    lowering the environmental impact, eliminating outsourcing would support local
    industries.

                                                                                                                                               3737
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Sustainability Principles: Invest in simulation

· Traditionally, many trial-and-error loops would
    be required to arrive at the most optimal design.

· But with simulation, all these loops can
    sometimes be completed in a matter of hours,
    saving precious resources in terms of raw
    materials, time and overhead energy costs
    related to electricity, water etc.

· It also reduces wastage as only a small number of
    products are out of spec when the part goes into
    actual production. Such a production method is,
    therefore, highly sustainable as well as
    profitable.

                                                                                                                                               3838
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

                                                                                                                                                                               39
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Manufacturing (DFM) is an important part of any product development cycle (e.g., initial design, final design,
fabrication, production, and product launch). Which item below is correct:

       A ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied in the production stage because of the higher impact
           and lower cost of changes due to the product being manufactured and can be changed promptly.

       B ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied during product launch because of the highest impact
           and lowest cost of changes.

       C ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied to the initial design because of the highest impact and
           lowest cost of changes.

       D ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied after the initial design and before production when the
           final design is being finalized and can effectively implement required changes according to
           customer requirements.

       E ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied in all stages after design because we are sure that the
           customer requirements are recognized completely and any changes in the future do not impose
           higher costs of changes.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 40
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

There is a variety of actionable sustainable design principles that can be implemented to create better designs. Some of
them are below except:

       A ­ Dematerialization.
       B ­ Migration to product-service systems.
       C ­ Limit or eliminate long-distance outsourcing.
       D ­ Design for a shorter period of usage.
       E ­ Invest in simulation.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 41
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Which of the following statements best describes the three pillars of sustainability?

       A ­ Sustainability involves meeting the current generation's needs without consideration for future
           generations, emphasizing economic growth, environmental care, and social well-being.

       B ­ Sustainability entails achieving economic growth, environmental care, and social well-being
           simultaneously, fulfilling the needs of current generations without compromising the needs of
           future generations.

       C ­ Sustainability primarily focuses on economic growth, with minimal consideration for
           environmental and social aspects, to fulfill the needs of the current generation.

       D ­ Sustainability prioritizes environmental care over economic growth and social well-being,
           neglecting the importance of balancing all three pillars.

       E ­ Sustainability emphasizes social well-being as the sole pillar, with economic growth and
           environmental care being secondary considerations in fulfilling the needs of current and future
           generations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 42
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Design for Manufacturing (DFM) is an important part of any product development cycle. Which item below is not
correct regarding DFM:

       A ­ The time required for design for manufacturability is determined by the product's complexity, the
           organization's size, and the resources available.

       B ­ As a general rule, DFM is a continuous process that begins at the initial stages of product design
           and continues through the entire product lifecycle.

       C ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied to the initial design because of the highest impact and
           lowest cost of changes.

       D ­ The DFM may impose higher manufacturing costs, instead can benefit from higher customer
           satisfaction because of improved product quality.

       E ­ The DFM consists of some main principles such as Simplicity, Standardization, Tolerance, Material
           Selection, Automation, and Process Integration.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 43
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Which of the following is NOT a principle of Design for Manufacturing (DFM)?

  A. Standardization
  B. Simplicity
  C. Material Selection
  D. Advertising Strategy
  E. Automation

                                                                                                                                                                                                 44
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

The 4Rs are effective tools for building a circular economy for sustainable products. Which of the following is NOT one
of the 4Rs principles?

          A. Reduce
          B. Reuse
          C. Repair
          D. Recycle
          E. Replace

                                                                                                                                                                                                 45
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

The product development cycle generally consists of initial design, final design, fabrication, production, and product
launch. At which stage is Design for Manufacturing (DFM) most effective in terms of highest impact and lowest cost of
changes?

      A. Initial design
      B. Final design
      C. Fabrication
      D. Production
      E. Product launch

                                                                                                                                                                                                 46
           Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

Sustainability aims to balance three main pillars. Which of the following is NOT one of the pillars of sustainability?
   A. Economic pillar
   B. Environmental pillar
   C. Social pillar
   D. Technological pillar
   E. None of the above

                                                                                                                                                                                                 47
                             Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

In the Next Lesson:

   Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

                                                                                                                                          48
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability

=== ch06-dfm-part2.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

   Design For Manufacturing
                (Part 2)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

 Part 1: Introduction & Design for Sustainability
 Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality
 Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design
 Part 4: 6-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                          2
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Quality Control (QC)

                                                                            3
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Definition

· Quality control (QC) is a procedure or set of
    procedures intended to ensure that a
    manufactured product or performed service
    adheres to a defined set of quality criteria or
    meets the requirements of the client or
    customer.

· QC is similar to, but not identical with, quality
    assurance (QA).

        The goal of QC is to identify any defects after a product is developed, but
        before it's released.

                                                                                                                                               44
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

QC vs QA

· Quality assurance (QA) is a proactive process that focuses on defect
    prevention by progressively refining manufacturing processes,
    policies and procedures.

· Quality control (QC) is a reactive process that focuses on effectively
    identifying defects in completed products before they can be
    shipped to customers.

                                                                            55
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

7-QC Tools

By using seven basic tools of quality, we can manage the quality of our product
or process effectively. Known around the world as the seven-quality control (7-
QC) tools, they are:

      Flowchart
      Check sheet
      Pareto chart
      Cause-and-effect diagram
      Control chart
      Histogram
      Scatter diagram

                                                                                 66
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Flowchart

A process flowchart is a diagram that shows the sequential steps of a process
and the decisions needed to make the process work. Within the chart/visual
representation, every step is indicated by a shape. These shapes are
connected by lines and arrows to show the movement and direction of the
process.

          When to use:

                  To study a process for improvisation
                  To document a process
                  When planning a project

                                                                               77
            Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Flowchart

(Examples)

                                                                                        88
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Check Sheet

 A check sheet is a structured, prepared form for
 collecting and analyzing data. This is a generic
 data collection and analysis tool that can be
 adapted for a wide variety of purposes and is
 considered one of the seven basic quality tools.

   When to use:

         When data can be collected and observed by similar location and person
         When collecting data from a production
         When collecting data on the pattern of events, problems or defects.

                                                                                 99
             Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Check Sheet

(Examples)

                                                                                         1010
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Cause-Effect Diagram

A cause-effect diagram is a visual tool used to logically organize possible
causes for a specific problem or effect by graphically displaying them in
increasing detail, suggesting causal relationships among theories. A popular
type is also referred to as a fishbone or Ishikawa diagram.

    When to use:

           To study a process for improvisation
           To document a process
           When planning a project

                                                                              1111
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Cause-Effect Diagram

(Examples)

                                                                            1212
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Pareto Chart

Pareto Chart is a bar chart sorted in descending order from the highest frequency
to the lowest frequency from left to right. The height of the bars reflects the
frequency or the impact of the problems. Based on the Pareto principle (also
known as 80/20 rule), which states that 80% of the effects are caused by 20% of
the causes, the Pareto chart is used to determine the most important reasons for
a certain effect.

     When to use:

           When analyzing data about the frequency or cause in the process
           When there are issues or causes, and you want to focus on the

               important one
           When analyzing broad causes by looking at the specific parts

                                                                                                                                               1313
              Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Pareto Chart

(Example)

                                                                                          1414
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

  The control chart is a graph used to study how a
  process changes over time. Data are plotted in
  time order. It is essentially a statistical chart that
  helps decide if an industrial process is within
  control and proficient at meeting the client
  characterized detail limits. Control graph is also
  called Shewhart Chart.

  When to use:

         To find or correct issues as they occur in an
             ongoing process

         When predicting the specific range of
             outcomes from a process

         When determining if a process is stable

                                                                                                                                               1515
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

 A control chart always has a central line for the average, an upper line for the
 Upper Control Limit (UCL), and a lower line for the Lower Control Limit (LCL). These
 lines are determined from historical data. Let assume there are  historical data
 (sample points) from the process, then three parameters including average (),
 UCL and LCL are computed by:

  =  =1   Where  shows the value
          of ith historical data.

 =   =1  -  2   =  + 
                =  - 

               Computing A is discussed in next slide.                                     1616
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

 Control rules take advantage of the normal curve in which  = 1, then 68.26
 percent of all data is within plus or minus one standard deviation from the
 average, when  = 2, then 95.44 percent of all data is within plus or minus two
 standard deviations from the average, and by  = 3, then 99.73 percent of data
 will be within plus or minus three standard deviations from the average.

                                                                            1717
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

   What do you think about
   this process?

      Controlled Variation (Stable
                    Process)

· The data points are within the control limits and there are no significant
    trends or patterns. This indicates that the process is stable and predictable

                                                                                                                                               1818
                Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

What do you think about
this process?

   Uncontrolled Variation
      (Unstable Process)

· There are several data points that are outside the control limits and there is a
    significant downward trend in the samples over time. This indicates that the
    process is not stable and there are variations in the products that are not
    under control.

                                                                                                                                               1919
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

  Non-stable control chart example (cont'd):

  · Identify the Cause: Look for patterns or points outside control limits to understand
      what's causing the instability.

  · Investigate the Issue: Check for possible factors like machine problems, material
      defects, or human error.

  · Implement Corrective Actions: Fix the issue, such as repairing equipment, improving
      training, or changing materials.

  · Monitor the Process: Keep using the control chart to track if the process improves
      and becomes stable again.

  · Verify Stability: Ensure that the data points stay within the control limits over time,
      showing that the process is now stable.

                                                                                                                                               2020
                Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

(Examples)

                                                                                            2121
                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Control Charts

Numerical Example                   Sample Number  Yield Rate (%)
                                             1          98.50
This data set represents the yield           2          97.80
                                             3          98.30
rate (%) for a particular                    4          99.10
                                             5          99.30
electronic      manufacturing                6          94.32
                                             7          98.40
process over 15 samples. Using               8          98.60
                                             9          98.80
this data set, a control chart can          10          99.00
                                            11          99.10
be created to monitor the                   12          98.80
                                            13          98.90
process and detect any shifts or            14          99.10
                                            15          98.20
trends in the yield rate over

time.

                                                                                               2222
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Histogram

A histogram is essentially a bar chart and allows you to understand at a glance
the variation that exists in a process. Although, it creates a "lumpy distribution
curve" that can be used to help identify and eliminate the causes of process
variation.

When to use:

      When analyzing if a process can meet customer's requirements
      When analyzing the numerical data
      When determining if the outputs of two or more processes are different

                                                                                    2323
            Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Histogram

(Examples)

                                                                                        2424
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Scatter Diagram

 The scatter diagram graphs pairs of numerical data, with one variable on each
 axis, to look for a relationship between them. If the variables are correlated,
 the points will fall along a line or curve. The better the correlation, the close-
 fitting the points will hug the line.

       When to use:

              When you have a paired numerical data
              When testing for autocorrelation before constructing a control chart
              When trying to identify the root causes of issues

                                                                                     2525
                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Scatter Diagram

(Examples)

                                                                                             2626
                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Scatter Diagram

Numerical Example

This data set represents the temperature

(°C) of a production line and the

corresponding number of component

failures during a certain period. The data

can be used to create a scatter diagram

to investigate the relationship between

temperature and failure rate. The

temperature data is plotted on the x-axis,

and the number of failures on the y-axis.

The resulting scatter plot can be

analyzed to determine whether there is a

correlation between temperature and

failure rates.                                                                                 2727
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Cost of Quality (COQ)

                                                                            2288
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)               -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Definition

· Armand V. Feigenbaum first described
    the concept of the cost of poor quality
    in a 1956 Harvard Business Review
    article.

· Cost of quality (COQ) refers to costs
    incurred while ensuring that you get
    high-quality deliverables. It also
    includes the cost of dealing with any
    defects in your work.

                                                                                                                                               2929
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Quality Cost Curve

In 1999, Juran published the 5th addition of Juran's Quality Handbook where he
included the following depiction of the Quality Cost Curve.

                                                                            3030
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Classification
The cost of quality can be categorized into four categories:
· Prevention Cost
· Appraisal Cost
· Internal Failure Cost and
· External Failure Cost

                                                                            3131
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Prevention Costs

 Prevention costs associated with activities specifically designed to prevent poor
 quality in products. The examples of the prevention costs include:

        · Quality planning
        · Education and training
        · Conducting design reviews
        · Supplier reviews and selection
        · Process planning and control
        · Product modifications
        · Equipment upgrades

                                                                            3232
                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Appraisal Costs

Appraisal costs associated with activities specifically designed to measure,
inspect, evaluate or audit products to assure conformance to quality
requirements. The examples of the appraisal costs include:

· Test and inspection (receiving, in-process and final)
· Supplier quality control
· Process Audits
· Calibration

                                                                                             3333
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Internal Failure Costs

  Internal Failure Costs are the costs that are associated with defects found within
  the organization before the customer receives the product or service. The
  examples of the internal failure costs include:

    · In-process scrap and rework
    · Troubleshooting and repairing
    · Design changes
    · Inventory required to support poor process yields and rejected lots
    · Re-inspection / retest of reworked items

                                                                            3434
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

External Failure Costs

  External Failure Costs are the costs that are associated with defects found after
  the customer receives the product or service. The examples of the external
  failure costs include:

      · Sales returns and allowances
      · Replacing defective products
      · Service level agreement penalties
      · Service labor and costs incurred due to warranty obligations
      · Product recalls / Legal claims
      · Lost customers and opportunities
      · Downgrading
      · Processing of customer complaints

                                                                                                                                               3535
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)                    -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Examples (Classification of the Cost of Quality)

1- Cost of getting company certified to ISO
9001

2- The cost of quality-related training

3- Review of drawings

                                                                                                                                            3636
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)                    -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Examples (Classification of the Cost of Quality)

 4- Preparation of quality management system
 and inspection procedures

5- Product recall and warranty repairs
6- Defects found by customers after receiving the product

7- Inspection and re-inspection of the repaired product

                                                                                                                                             3737
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)        -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Visible vs Invisible Cost of Quality

                                                                                  3838
         Design For Manufacturing (DFM)            -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Summary

· COQ is important for companies to
    understand what they need to do to reduce
    their overall cost of quality. This will help
    them improve their business processes and
    operations, which ultimately lead to better
    profitability.

· The worst type of cost out of these four categories of the cost of poor quality is
    the external failure costs. Organizations should make their best effort to reduce
    the external failure cost.

· Spending more on prevention and appraisal costs usually leads to a reduction

in internal and external failure costs.                                                        3939
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

                                                                            40
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

When analyzing broad causes by looking at the specific parts, the Pareto chart is one of the applicable tools for the
control of quality. Which of the following statements about a Pareto chart is true?

       A ­ It is a bar graph that displays the relative frequency or size of problems in descending order of
           importance.

       B ­ It is a line graph that shows the cumulative percentage of problems plotted against the total
           number of occurrences.

       C ­ It is a scatter plot that indicates the correlation between two variables.
       D ­ It is a pie chart that breaks down the total number of problems into categories.
       E ­ None of the above statements.

                                                                                                                       41
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

Which of the following statements best fits with the definition of the control charts?

A. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is stable and predictable over time.
B. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is profitable or not.
C. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is meeting customer demand or not.
D. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is efficient or not.
E. None of the above statements is correct.

                                                                                                42
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

The cost of quality can be categorized into four categories: Prevention Cost, Appraisal Cost, Internal Failure Cost, and
External Failure Cost. Which item below is not classified as an appraisal cost?

A. Test and inspection (receiving, in-process, and final)
B. Supplier acceptance sampling
C. Product Audits
D. Equipment upgrades
E. Calibration

                                                                                                                          43
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

The seven basic Quality Control (7-QC) tools are widely used to manage and improve product or process quality. Which
of the following is NOT one of the seven QC tools?

A. Flowchart
B. Pareto chart
C. Linear programming
D. Scatter diagram
E. Control chart

                                                                            44
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

In quality control, a cause-and-effect diagram (fishbone diagram) is mainly used to:

A. Measure product dimensions during inspection
B. Identify and categorize possible root causes of a problem
C. Forecast future product demand
D. Schedule manufacturing operations
E. Calculate production cost

                                                                                      45
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

The Cost of Quality (CoQ) can be categorized into four types: Prevention Cost, Appraisal Cost, Internal Failure Cost, and
External Failure Cost. Consider the following two costs in a manufacturing company: (1) cost of quality-related training
for employees, and (2) product recall and warranty repairs after the product reaches customers. How should these two
costs be classified?

A. Training ­ Prevention Cost; Product recall ­ External Failure Cost
B. Training ­ Appraisal Cost; Product recall ­ Internal Failure Cost
C. Training ­ Internal Failure Cost; Product recall ­ Prevention Cost
D. Training ­ External Failure Cost; Product recall ­ Appraisal Cost
E. Training ­ Appraisal Cost; Product recall ­ Prevention Cost

                                                                            46
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

A manufacturer of printed circuit boards (PCBs) wants to monitor the defect rate over time to ensure the products
meet quality standards. After collecting data for a certain period, the manufacturer plots the defect rate and observes
the trend over time to determine whether the process is under control or not. Which quality control tool is most
appropriate for this purpose?

A. Histogram
B. Control Chart
C. Check Sheet
D. Pareto Chart
E. Cause-and-Effect Diagram

                                                                                                                         47
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

In the Next Lesson:

  Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

                                                                            48
Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality

=== ch07-dfm-part3.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

   Design For Manufacturing
                (Part 3)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                                  Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

 Part 1: Introduction to DFM & Design for Sustainability
 Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality
 Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design
 Part 4: 6-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                          2
         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Robust Manufacturing Design

                                                                                                                3
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Research and Development (R&D)

A major part of research
and development (R&D), is
to manufacture products
that meet customer
requirements.

                                                                                                                                                44
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Definition

· Robust Design is an engineering methodology used to
    improve productivity during research and development
    (R&D).

· It helps produce high-quality products quickly and at
    lower cost.

· It uses statistical experimental design methods to
    obtain reliable information for engineering decision-
    making.

· The concept and foundations were developed in the
    1950s­1960s by Genichi Taguchi.

                                                                                                                                               55
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

The Basic Idea Behind Robust Design

   The idea behind the robust design is to increase the quality of a process/product by
       decreasing the effects of variation without eliminating the causes since they are
       too difficult or too expensive to control.

                                                                                                                                                66
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

The Basic Idea Behind Robust Design

   Example:
   Resistor Manufacturing and
   Taguchi Method

    Imagine a factory produces 100-ohm
    resistors, but due to variations in
    materials and processes, the actual
    resistances range from 95 ohms to 105
    ohms. This variation can affect circuit
    performance.

Using the Taguchi Robust Design, engineers identify and control key factors (like temperature, material

quality, or machine settings) to minimize this variation. After applying Taguchi optimization, the resistors

now range from 98 ohms to 102 ohms, meaning the variation has been reduced while still centering

around 100 ohms.                                                                                              77
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

What is Quality?

  Ideal quality: Customers can expect every
      product delivers the target performance
      each time the product is used (may be
      impossible).

  Following robust design (Taguchi)
      viewpoint, we measure the quality of a
      product in terms of the total loss to
      society (producer and customer) due to
      functional variation and harmful side
      effects.

  Under the ideal quality, the loss would be
      zero; the greater the loss, the lower the
      quality.

                                                                                                                                                88
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

What is Quality?

 Example 1:

 In the 1970s, American consumers preferred
 Sony televisions made in Japan over those
 made in the USA, even though both used the
 same designs and tolerances. The reason
 wasn't the number of defective products but
 the color density. Sony-Japan's TVs had a
 normal distribution of color density centered
 around the target, with a small variation.
 Sony-USA's TVs had a more uniform
 distribution, but with wider variations.
 Despite Sony-USA having fewer defective
 units, the difference in quality was perceived
 due to the variation in color, not defects.

                                                                                                                                                99
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

What is Quality?

 Example 2:

 A manufacturer used the fraction of
 defective units as a quality measure for
 telephone cables, with a target resistance of
 "m" ohms per mile. They improved the
 process by reducing variance and shifting
 the mean resistance closer to the upper
 limit, reducing copper usage. However, this
 increase in resistance led to higher electrical
 losses in the network, causing complaints
 from users. This example demonstrates that
 both variance and deviation from the target
 point should be considered simultaneously
 for effective process improvement.

                                                                                                                                                1010
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Major Tools Used In Robust Design

 The two major tools used in Robust Design are:
 1. Quality Loss Function: measurement of quality during design/ development.
 2. Orthogonal Arrays: efficient experimentation to find dependable information about

       the design parameters.

                                                                                                                                                1111
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Traditional viewpoint
 The quality loss quantify as below:

  = 0,0,    -  < 0
                  

Here, 0 is the cost of replacement or repair. Any value in the range ( - 0)
to ( + 0) is equally good for the customer and that as soon as the range is
exceeded the product is bad.

                                                                                                                                             1212
                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Taguchi Viewpoint (Quadratic Loss Function )
The quality loss quantify as below:

               =   -  2

where  is a constant called quality loss

coefficient:    =  0
                   02

Notice that at  =  the loss is zero. This is quite appropriate because  is the
best value for . The loss   increases slowly (less slope) when we are near ;
but as we go farther from  the loss increases more rapidly.

                                                                                                                                              1313
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Example - Television Set Color Density:

Suppose the functional limits for the color density are  ± 7. Let the repair of a television
set in the field cost on average 0 = $98. The quadratic loss function can be written as:

      98   -  2 = 2  -  2
   = 72

Thus, the average quality loss incurred by the customers receiving sets with color density
 + 4 is ( + 4) = $32, while customers receiving sets with color density  + 2 incur
an average quality loss of only ( + 2) = $8.

                           1414
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Example - Power Supply Circuit:

Consider a power supply circuit used in a stereo system for which the target output voltage
is 110 volts. If the output voltage falls outside 110 ± 20 volts, then the stereo fails in half
the situations and must be repaired. Suppose it costs $100 to repair the stereo. Calculate
the average loss associated with a particular value  of output voltage.

                                                                                                                                               1515
                                          Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Types of Quality Characteristics

E.g., Operating Temperature,
Duty Cycle, Bandwidth,
Voltage Regulation, etc.

 E.g., Response time of a
 computer, leakage current in
 electronic circuits, and
 pollution from an automobile,
 etc.

 E.g., Efficiency, accuracy,
 Power amplification, etc.

                                                                                                                1616
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Classification of Parameters: P Diagram

  A number of parameters can
     influence the quality
     characteristic or response of
     the product (the word
     "parameter" is equivalent to
     the word "factor" in most of
     Robust Design literature):

       1. Signal factors
       2. Noise factors
       3. Control factors

                                                                                                                                               1717
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Signal Factor(s)

 These factors have a direct and significant
 impact on the performance of the product.
 Examples of signal factors in electronic
 manufacturing may include:
  Voltage level
  Current level
  Frequency of operation
  Resistance
  Capacitance
  Etc.

                                                                                                                                                1818
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Control Factor(s)

 These parameters can be specified optimally
 by a designer. These are equivalent to design
 variables in optimization. These factors can
 be controlled or manipulated to improve the
 performance and reliability of the product.
 Examples of control factors in electronic
 manufacturing may include:

  Manufacturing process parameters
  Material properties
  Component selection
  Assembly techniques
  Testing procedures
  Etc.

                                                                                                                                                1919
                     Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Noise Factor(s)

Noise factors are factors that cause
variability (uncertainty) in the performance
of a system or product but cannot be
controlled (or expensive) during
production or product use. Examples of
noise factors in electronic manufacturing
may include:

 Temperature fluctuations

 Humidity levels

 Electrical interference

 Component tolerances

 Process variations

 Human error

 Etc.                                                                                     2020
   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Average Quality Loss

Because of the noise factors, the quality characteristic  of a product varies from unit to unit,
and from time to time during the usage of the product.

Let 1, 2 , ...,  be  representative
measurements of the quality characteristic 

taken on a few representative units throughout

the design life of the product.

Let  be a nominal-the-best type quality
characteristic and  be its target value. Then, the
average quality loss,  , resulting from this
product is given by:

1
 =   1 +  2 +  + ()
                                                                        2121
                                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Average Quality Loss

  =  1   1  +  2      +  + ()       =        1 -  2 + 2 -  2 +  +  -  2
                                           

=   -  2 + -1 2

                               

where  and 2 are the mean and the variance of
, respectively, as computed by

       1              2          =    1      -   2
   =                                 - 1 
                                    =1
             =1

When  is large, then                 =   -   + 

                                                                                                      2222
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Average Quality Loss                                        Device 1: 9.5 volts
                                                            Device 2: 9.8 volts
Example                                                     Device 3: 10.1 volts
                                                            Device 4: 9.9 volts
 Let's say that we are manufacturing a device that          Device 5: 9.7 volts
 amplifies an input signal, and the desired output signal   Device 6: 10.2 volts
 strength is 10 volts. However, due to various sources of   Device 7: 9.6 volts
 variation in the manufacturing process, the output signal  Device 8: 10.3 volts
 strength may deviate from the target value. We             Device 9: 10.0 volts
 manufacture 10 devices, and we measure the output          Device 10: 9.4 volts
 signal strength of each device. Here are the results:

 Calculate the average quality loss function, if assume
 the cost of repairing of devices if fault out of 10 ± 0.5
 would be $2.

                                                                                  2323
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM)  -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Taguchi Parameter Design

            1. Brainstorming        Design Parameters (Control Factors ): Variables under
                                    your control
2. Identify Design Parameters and
              Noise Factors         Noise Factors: Variables you cannot control or that are
                                    too expensive to control
3. Construct Design of Experiments
                   (DOE)                 Ideally, you would like to investigate all possible
                                         combinations of design parameters and noise
       4. Perform Experiments            factors and then pick the best design parameters.
                                         Unfortunately, cost and schedule constraints
           5. Analyze Results            frequently prevent us from performing this many
                                         test cases ­ this is where DOE come in!

                                                                                                                 2424
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Design of Experiment (DOE)
 Full factorial always needs more experiments

           Full factorial design  Number of Experiments = (# )# 

  Example: The total number of
  experiments required for 2
  levels can be calculated by:

       One of the common method for designing of experiments (DOE) is
                                    Orthogonal Array (OA).

                                                                                                                                                2525
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Design of Experiment (DOE)

Orthogonal Array (OA)

Example: L4 (23) and L9(34) orthogonal array            L9(34) Orthogonal Array

                            L4(23) Orthogonal Array  Exp.       Variables
                                                     Num   X1 X2 X3 X4
                            Exp.    Variables              1111
                            Num   X1 X2 X3           1

      Number of Number of                            2     1222
Variable Levels Variables
                            1     111                3     1333
    L4(23)
                            2     122                4     2123
             Number of
             Experiments    3     212                5     2231

                            4     221                6     2312

                                                     7     3132

                                                     8     3213

                                                     9     3 3 2 1 26
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Design of Experiment (DOE)- Orthogonal Array (OA)

    Standard OAs
                   Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Design of Experiment (DOE)- Orthogonal Array (OA)

Inner & Outer Arrays (Crossed Arrays)

Design Parameters                                                Noise                                      N3 1 2 2 1
                                                                                                            N2 1 2 1 2
Experiment Number                                                                                           N1 1 1 2 2
                                                 Experiment Num                          X1 X2 X3 X4 1 2 3 4
                                                                                    11111

                                                                                    2 1 2 2 2 y11 = f {X1(1), X2(1),

                                                                  Performance       31333  X3(1), X4(1),
                                                                  Characteristic    42123  N1(1), N2(1), N3(1)}
                                                                evaluated at the
                                                                specified design    52231
                                                                 parameter and
                                                               noise factor values  62312  y52 = f {X1(2), X2(2),
                                                                                    73132            X3(3), X4(1),
                                                                                    83213            N1(1), N2(2), N3(2)}

                                                                                    93321

Inner Array ­ design parameter matrix                                                                                      28

Outer Array ­ noise factor matrix
                                         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Design of Experiment (DOE)- Orthogonal Array (OA)

                                      Noise

                   Design Parameters         Experiment Num For each row  Compute Mean ()  Compute Loss Function

                                                                                                          =   -   + 
                                                                          Compute Variance (2)

Experiment Number                               Performance       Find the row (input combinations) with
                                                Characteristic    smallest Loss Function.
                                              evaluated at the
                                              specified design
                                               parameter and
                                             noise factor values

                   Inner Array ­ design parameter matrix
                   Outer Array ­ noise factor matrix

                                                                                                                                              29
                                         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Example

   There are four controllable factors (A, B, C, D) each at three levels and three noise or
   uncontrollable factors (E, F, G) each at two levels. Using the experimental results in this crossed
   arrays design, find the relevant robust optimal product design (assume the target point for the
   product in 20, and K=1 in quality loss function).

                                                                                                                                                  30
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

                                                                                                                                                                      31
                Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

According to the Taguchi quality philosophy, the quadratic loss function can be represented in several forms depending
on the design objective. Which of the following is NOT one of the common Taguchi loss function types?

   A. Nominal-the-best
   B. Smaller-the-better
   C. Larger-the-better
   D. Target-the-zero
   E. None of the above

                                                                                                                                                                                                 32
                Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

In robust design, the response of a product (denoted by y) can be influenced by three classes of parameters
represented as Z, M, and X. Which of the following options correctly represents two of these parameter classes?

      A. Control factors and Noise factors
      B. Marketing factors and Economic factors
      C. Environmental factors and Financial factors
      D. Human factors and Cost factors
      E. Demand factors and Supply factors

                                                                                                                                                                                                 33
                Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

A product engineer collects 10 observations for a product quality characteristic where the objective is nominal-the-
best. The target value is 8.5 and the Taguchi loss constant k=1. The observations are:
8.100, 8.900, 8.450, 9.250, 8.860, 8.350, 8.250, 8.680, 8.900, 9.050
Based on these data (nominal the best), what is the average Taguchi loss value for this dataset?

   A. 0.3762
   B. 0.1736
   C. 0.0319
   D. 0.6790
   E. 0.1420

                                                                                                                                                                                                 34
                             Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

In the Next Lesson:

      Part 4: 6-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                     35
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

Appendix: Taguchi OA samples

   ·L4: Three two-level factors
   ·L8: Seven two-level factors
   ·L9 : Four three-level factors
   ·L12: Eleven two-level factors
   ·L16: Fifteen two-level factors
   ·L16b: Five four-level factors
   ·L18: One two-level and seven three-level factors
   ·L25: Six five-level factors
   ·L27: Thirteen three-level factors
   ·L32: Thirty-two two-level factors
   ·L32b: One two-level factor and nine four-level factors
   ·L36: Eleven two-level factors and twelve three-level factors
   ·L50: One two-level factors at 2 levels and eleven five-level factors
   ·L54: One two-level factor and twenty-five three-level factors
   ·L64: Thirty-one two-level factors
   ·L64b: Twenty-one four-level factors
   ·L81: Forty three-level factors
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design

=== ch08-dfm-part4.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

   Design For Manufacturing
                (Part 4)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                                 Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

 Part 1: Introduction to DFM & Design for Sustainability
 Part 2: Quality Control & Cost of Quality
 Part 3: Robust Manufacturing Design
 Part 4: 6-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                          2
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

  Six-Sigma (6)

                                                                                                        3
                                      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Six-Sigma: Contents:
    Six Sigma : An Overview
    What is Six Sigma?
    Why Six Sigma?
    Six Sigma Phases : Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve
      and Control
    Tools and Key Roles for Six Sigma

                                                                                                                                               44
                                      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

What is Sigma ?

Sigma  A term used in statistics to represent
       standard deviation, an indicator of the
       degree of variation in a set of a process.

                                                                                                              55
       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

What is Six-Sigma ?

 Six-  A statistical concept that measures a process
Sigma  in terms of defects ­ at the six-sigma level,
       there 3.4 defects per million opportunities.

           Goal: as perfect as practically possible

           A methodology and a symbol of quality

                                                                               66
                                      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Sigma Levels

                                                                                                                                               77
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Field of Application

                                  Service

                      Production              Design

                      Purchase     Six               Quality
                                  Sigma           Department

                      Administra              IT
                          tion

                                  Management

                                                                        88
                                      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Cost of Poor Quality
   Cost of scrap.
   Cost of rework.
   Cost of excessive cycle times and delays.
   Cost of business lost because customers are dissatisfied with
     your products or services.
   Cost of opportunities lost because you didn't have time or the
     resources to take advantage of them.

                                                                                                                                               99
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Critical-to-Quality (CTQ)

      Elements of a process that
   significantly affect the output of
    that process. Identifying these
    elements is figuring out how to
     make improvements that can
    dramatically reduce costs and

             enhance quality.

                                                                                                                                                1010
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Why Six Sigma?

                                                                                                                                                1111
                                      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Why Six Sigma?

    At General Electric Company (GE), Six Sigma added more than $2 billion
       to a company's net income in 1999 alone.

    Motorola saved more than $15 billion in the first 10 years of its Six Sigma
       effort.

    AlliedSignal reports saving $1,5 billion through Six Sigma.

          Six Sigma is about practices that help you eliminate defects and always
               deliver products and services that meet customer specifications.

                                                                                                                                               1212
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Some companies that implemented Six-Sigma:

                                                                                                                                                1313
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Six Sigma Phases

The DMAIC model is a roadmap for Six Sigma, used to improve the quality of

results that company processes produce.                                                                        1414
DMAIC      Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability
   Define
             Define the project goals and customer (internal and
                                 external) deliverables.

Measure    Measure the process to determine current performance.

Analyze    Analyze and determine the root cause(s) of the defects

                                                                                                                   1515
         Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

DMAIC

Improve  Improve the process by eliminating defects.

Control  Monitor all improvements made to ensure sustainable
                      changes and long-lasting results.

                                                                                 1616
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma

                                                                                                                                               1717
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma

     Example: (5 Whys in problem solving)

                                                                                                                                               1818
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma

                                                                                                                                               1919
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma

                                                                                                                                               2020
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma

Continuous Improvement with PDCA                                                                               2121
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Tools for Six Sigma Mistake Proofing

                                                                                                                                               2222
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Key Roles for Six Sigma

There are five key roles for Six  Executive Leadership
Sigma in manufacturing:                Champions

                                   Master Black Belts
                                        Black Belts
                                       Green Belts

                                                                                             2323
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability

                                                                                                        2244
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

What is Process Capability?

You will take some historical data, and
extrapolate out to the future to answer
the question:

   Can I rely on this process to
   deliver good parts?

 Definition:
 Process capability refers to the
 measure/degree to which a process
 can consistently produce output that
 meets process specifications.

                                                                                                                                                2255
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Overview

        The goal of process
improvement is to shift the process
center to the target value and
reduce variation so that results
consistently meet customer
specifications..

                                                                                                                                               2266
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices

 There are two main statistics that can be used to
     measure the capability of a process ( and ).

 Most capability indices estimates are valid only if
     the sample size used is "large enough". Large
     enough is generally thought to be about 50
     independent data values.

 The  and  statistics assume that the
     population of data values is normally distributed.

  and  are the mean and standard deviation,
     respectively, of the normal data and USL and
     LSL are the upper and lower specification limits,
     respectively.

                                                                                                                                               2277
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices
                - 

         = 6

                                                                                                                                               2288
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices
                  -   - 

  = min 3 , 3

                                                                                                                                               2299
                                       Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices

 Example:

                                                                                                                                               3300
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices

  Risk Assessment for Cpk Value:

    · Cpk < 1.00: High risk of defects, the process is not
        capable.

    · 1.00  Cpk < 1.33: Moderate risk of defects,
        improvement needed for better capability.

    · 1.33  Cpk < 1.67: Low risk of defects, the process is
        capable but has some room for improvement.

    · Cpk  1.67: Minimal risk of defects, the process is highly
        capable.

    Aim for a Cpk value of 2.00 or higher where possible. A Cpk
    of 2.00 implies that the process uses only 50% of the spec
    width, significantly reducing the risk of defect.

                                                                                                                                                 3311
                                        Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Process Capability Indices

 Example:

     A manufacturer produces a type of resistor that should have a resistance of 10 ohms,
     with a tolerance of ±1 ohm. To ensure that the manufacturing process is capable of
     producing resistors within specifications, the manufacturer measures the resistance of a
     sample of resistors and calculates the Cp and Cpk indices. Assume that the sample of
     resistors has a mean resistance of 10.1 ohms and a standard deviation of 0.3 ohms.
     Discuss the obtained results.

                                                                                                                                                 3322
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

                                                                                                                                                                        33
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Which of the following statements is true regarding process capability?

       A. Process capability is a measure of how efficient a process is in terms of time and resources.
       B. Process capability refers to the degree to which a process can consistently produce output that

           meets process specifications.
       C. Process capability is determined solely by the skill level of the workers involved in the process.
       D. Process capability is not relevant for service industries.
       E. None of the above statements is true regarding process capability.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 34
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

In Six Sigma methodology, the term Critical-to-Quality (CTQ) refers to:
   A. Elements of a process that significantly affect the quality of the output
   B. The maximum number of defects allowed in a production batch
   C. A financial method used to reduce manufacturing costs
   D. The speed at which a production line operates
   E. A tool used to calculate the number of defects per million opportunities

                                                                                                                                                                                                 35
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

A manufacturing process produces a product with specification limits 20 ± 1 mm. The process mean is 19.8 mm and the
standard deviation is 0.2 mm. What is the process capability index Cpk.

       A. 0.67
       B. 1.00
       C. 1.33
       D. 1.67
       E. 2.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                 36
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

The process capability index (Cpk) is used to evaluate how well a process can meet specification limits. Which of the
following statements correctly describes a process with Cpk = 1.20?

       A. The process has a high risk of defects and is not capable
       B. The process has a moderate risk of defects and improvement is needed for better capability
       C. The process has a low risk of defects and is capable but may still be improved
       D. The process has minimal risk of defects and is highly capable
       E. The process produces zero defects

                                                                                                                                                                                                 37
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Which of the following Cpk values indicates a highly capable process with minimal risk of defects?

       A. 0.85
       B. 1.10
       C. 1.30
       D. 1.70
       E. 1.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                 38
               Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Six Sigma improvement methodology follows the DMAIC framework consisting of five main phases. Which of the
following is NOT one of the Six Sigma DMAIC phases?

          A. Improve
          B. Define
          C. Analyze
          D. Calibrate
          E. Measure

                                                                                                                                                                                                 39
                             Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

                                              I welcome your confidential feedback, comments,
                                                and suggestions on the lectures I have taught.

                                             Please feel free to share your thoughts via Moodle.

You can also reach out during office hours for an in-person chat:
Office: Research Building 6. Room No.374, 3rd floor.
Design For Manufacturing (DFM) -Part 4: Six-Sigma & Process Capability

Dr. Amir Parnianifard                                                   My Personal and Scholarly Page Links:

PhD, PMP®, IEEE Senior Member, RAEng Global Talent Endorsed             Google Scholar: https://sites.google.com/view/amir-parnianifard/home
Assistant Professor, Glasgow College UESTC.
Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk                                  ORCID-ID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0760-2149
                                                                        Researcher ID (WOS): F-7887-2017
                             Research Areas                             UofG: https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/engineering/staff/amirparnianifard/

                                              Engineering Optimization

Computational Intelligence

Optimal Control

Uncertainty Quantification

Robotics

Wireless Sensor Networks

Students Advising : 23 FYP students at Glasgow College (2023-24, 2024-25, and 2025-26), and 4 postgraduate students.
Journal Publications: >50 articles, books, and conference proceedings.

=== ch01-project-management-part1.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

       Project Management
                (Part 1)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

· Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager
· Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management
· Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management
· Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                              2
           Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Reference

This lecture is based on the PMBOK® Guide. For further details, students may refer to the PMBOK Guide or other PMI resources. The slides
serve as the primary material for the final exam. A PMP® certification is a globally recognized credential in PMI's certification process. 3
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

                    Introduction
                Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Session Overview

  · Why project management?
  · What is a Project?
  · What is Project Management?
  · Relationship between Portfolio, Program and Project
  · Project Management, Program Management, Portfolio,

     Operations Management
  · Organizational Project Management (OPM) and Strategies
  · Components of the guide
  · Project Management Business Documents

                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                        Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Why project management?

  Project management skills ensure projects are completed on time and
     within budget, enhancing overall efficiency.

  Effective communication is vital for collaboration within technical teams and with clients.
  Understanding project management helps in identifying and mitigating risks early on, preventing

     costly mistakes.
  Project management ensures projects meet client expectations, enhancing satisfaction and

     fostering long-term relationships.
  Proficiency in project management opens doors to leadership roles and career advancement

     opportunities.
 ...
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Definition of a Project

    A project is a temporary endeavor undertaken to create a unique product, service, or result
    · Temporary effort that has a defined start and end date

        · Temporary does not mean the duration of a project is short
    · It produces a "unique and verifiable" product, result or capability to perform a service
    · Deliverable may be tangible or intangible

        · Repetitive elements may be present in some projects, but repetition does not change its
           unique characteristics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Definition of a Project

                        o Building a bridge on the Panama Canal
                        o Conducting routine maintenance on electronic equipment, like computers or printers.
                        o Repairing a household appliance, such as a microwave or refrigerator.
                        o Designing and constructing an electronic device prototype
                        o Conducting daily operations of an electronic repair shop, such as fixing smartphones or tablets.
                        o Developing content for a new course
                        o Creating a software application for a specific purpose

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

A project can create..

   Unique Product
        · A unique product that can be either a component of another item, an enhancement or
           correction to an item, or a new end item itself

   Unique Service
        · A unique service or capability to perform a service (e.g a business function that supports
           production or distribution)

   Unique Result
         · A unique result such as an outcome or document (e.g a research project that develops knowledge
            that can be used to determine whether a trend is existing, or a new process will benefit society)

   Unique Combination
        · Combination of one or more products, services, or results (e.g. A software application, its
           associated documentation, and help desk services)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9
                    Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Projects

                    · Projects drive change:

· Projects enable business value creation:

          Tangible     Intangible             · Projects initiation context:
Monetary Assets     Goodwill
Stakeholder Equity  Brand recognition                                                                                                    10

Utility             Public benefit
Fixtures            Trademarks
Tools               Strategic alignment
Market Share        Reputation
                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Factors that Lead to the  · New Technology
Creation of a Project     · Competitive forces

                          · Material issues

                          · Market demand

                          · Economic changes

                          · Customer request

                          · Stakeholder demands

                          · Legal requirements

                          · Business process improvement

                          · Strategic opportunity or business need

                          · Social need

                          · Environmental consideration

                                                                                                                                                                                      11
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Management
 Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to project
 activities to meet the project requirements.

 · Project management is accomplished through the appropriate
    application and integration of the project management processes
    identified for the project.

 · Effective project management helps individuals, groups, public, and
    private organizations to meet business objectives, to satisfy
    stakeholder expectations, to manage constrains (e.g., Scope,
    Quality, Schedule, Costs, Resources)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
            Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Standalone  Project                         Portfolio

               Sub                          Programs             Projects  Operations
            portfolios

Programs                Projects  Subprograms          Programs

Projects                          Projects

            Relationship of Project, Program, Portfolio, and Operations

                                                                                                                                                                                                     13
                                        Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Relationship between Portfolio, Program, and Project

  Example

      Portfolio: New product development,
      market expansion, manufacturing
      process improvement, customer support
      enhancement.

      Program: Development and launch of a
      new generation of smart communication
      devices.

      Projects (within Program): Hardware
      design, software development, testing,
      and marketing strategies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Interrelationship of PMBOK Guide Key
Components in Projects

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge,

(PMBOK® Guide) ­ Fifth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2013, Figure 1-5, Page 18.                      15
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Management Processes                 Pre-specified
                                                 product
               A process is a set of
            interrelated actions and    Service
             activities performed to

                    create a ..

                                                Result

                                        Inputs               Tools and  Outputs
                                                            Techniques

Each process is characterized by its..

                                                                                 16
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Management Process Groups
     · The processes in each Process Group are connected by the outputs from the other processes.
        Process groups are overlapping activities that occur throughout the project.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Management Process Groups
 · The Five Process Groups are shown in terms of the level of interaction over the lifespan of a project
 · If the project is divided into phases each of the five process groups comes into play in during each phase

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Fifth edition, Project

Management Institute, Inc., 2013, Figure 3-2, Page 51.                                                                      19
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Initiating Process Group
    · Consists of those processes performed to define a new project or a new phase
    · Initial scope is defined, and initial financial resources are committed
    · Project Manager is selected
    · Project Charter is created, and Project is authorized
    Purpose of the Initiating Process Group:
    · Align the stakeholders' expectations with the project's purpose,
    · Give them visibility about the scope and objectives,
    · Show how their participation in the project and its associated phases can ensure that their
       expectations are achieved

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Planning Process Group
     · Consists of the processes performed to establish the total scope of the effort, define and refine the
        objectives, and develop the course of action required to attain those objectives

     · Planning processes develop the project management plan
     · As more information or characteristics are gathered and understood through repeated feedback

        loops, plans evolve through the Project Lifecycle ­ this progressive detailing of the plans is known as
        Progressive Elaboration

     Purpose of the Planning Process Group:

     · Outline the strategy and tactics to successfully complete the project
     · Identify risks that are not visible upfront
     · Document how to execute the other processes in the project

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Executing Process Group
   · Consists of those processes performed to complete the work defined in the project management
      plan to satisfy the project specifications
   · This is where most of the project resources will be consumed

    Purpose of the Executing Process Group:
   · Produce the deliverables as per the plan by:

        Coordinating people and resources
        Managing stakeholder expectations
        Integrating and performing the project activities

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Monitoring and Controlling Process Group
    · Consists of those processes required to track, review, and score the progress and performance of the
       project
    · These processes identify any areas in which changes to the plan are required and initiate the
       corresponding changes

    Purpose of the Monitoring and Controlling Process Group:
    · Controlling changes and recommending corrective or preventive action
    · Monitoring the ongoing project activities against the project management plan
    · Only approved changes are implemented

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Closing Process Group
  · Consists of those processes performed to conclude all activities across all Project Management
     Process Groups to formally complete the project, phase, or contract
   Purpose of the Closing Process Group:
  · Verify that the defined processes are completed within all of the Process Groups
  · Obtain acceptance by the customer or sponsor to formally close the project or phase
  · Conduct post-project or phase-end review and document lessons learned
  · Update organizational process assets

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23
                                        Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Knowledge Areas - a cross-sectional view of the processes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24
                     Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Information

· Throughout the life cycle of the project, a
  significant amount of data and information is
  collected, analyzed, transformed, and
  distributed

· It is important to get the terms right to
  prevent confusion and misunderstanding
  among stakeholders.

                                                                                                25
                     Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Information

    Work     · Raw observations, measurements identified
Performance
             · Examples include reported percent of work physically completed,
    Data        number of change requests, number of defects, actual costs, durations,
                etc.

    Work     · Performance data collected from various controlling processes,
Performance     analyzed in context
Information
             · Examples include status of deliverables, implementation status for change
                requests, and forecasted estimates

    Work     · Work performance information compiled documents, intended to
Performance     generate decisions, raise issues, and awareness

   Reports   · Examples include status reports, memos, justifications, information notes,
                and recommendations

                                                                                                26
                                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Tailoring

Adjustment or selection of relevant
processes, tools, inputs, outputs & phases
· Influenced by projects constraints,

    governance, culture, customer
· A collaborative effort by the PM
· Can be at an organization level also for

    the overall project management
    methods with additional tailoring
    guidelines for individual projects.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project success measures

    · Can be project objectives (benefits)
    · Benefits may be financial & non-financial, state

         changes, meeting the contract, customer satisfaction,
         operational integration, quality, process success, etc.

    · Stakeholders define what is success, how it is
         measured & what impacts it

    · Closely linked to organizational strategy & business
         results

    · Traditionally project was adherence to scope, cost &
         time only

    · A project should always match the goals and needs of
         the company or organization. If it doesn't, it may not
         be useful or successful.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28
                      Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Selection Methods

Idea Generation            Mathematical approach  Economic models
    Methods

· Constrained Brain-       · Linear programming   · Present value
   writing                 · Integer programming  · Net present value
                           · Dynamic programming
· Benchmarking                                    · Internal rate of
                           · Multi-objective         return
· Assumption                  programming
   Busting                                        · Cost-benefit
                                                     analysis

                                                                                                 29
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Selection: Present Value
   Present value means the value today of future cash flow.
   · Project evaluation usually requires comparing costs and benefits from different time periods

            FV      Where, FV = Future Value
PV =                         PV = Present Value

          (1 + r)n

FV = PV (1 + r)n    r = Interest Rate
                    n = Number of Time Periods

· If you have $1000 today and deposit it in your savings account, you will have $1,100 in one year,
  assuming the savings account interest rate is 10%.

· Key takeaway is to understand that a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Selection: Cost Benefit Analysis or Benefit Cost Analysis

  A ratio attempting to compare the total expected costs against the total expected benefits of each option.
        · In this type of analysis, the benefits and costs are expressed in monetary value and the monies are
           adjusted for the "Present Value". This is often done by converting the future expected streams of
           costs and benefits into a present value amount using suitable interest rates.

          Total Benefits  Benefit cost ratio > 1  Benefits are greater than costs; project is worth pursuing
  BCR =
                          Benefit cost ratio < 1  Benefits are lesser than costs; project isn't worth pursuing unless
            Total Costs                                    there is an intangible benefit
BCR Benefit Cost Ratio
                          Benefit cost ratio = 1  Benefits are equal to costs; project isn't worth pursuing

While BCR compares benefits and costs, IRR (Internal Rate of Return) tells us the rate of return of the
project. The simple fact is that larger IRRs are better than smaller IRRs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                31
                                     Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Selection: Cost Benefit Example (Practice)

                                     Year  Future Value Interest Rate Present Value               Total

Project Cost                         1     $500,000       10%                           $454,545

Operation Cost                       2     $280,000       5%                            $253,968

Operation Cost                       3     $175,000       8%                            $138,921

Total Project Cost after 3 years                                                                                $847,434

Project Benefit                      3     $900,000       9%                            $694,965

Total Project Benefit after 3 years                                                                             $694,965

Benefit Cost Ratio                           Total Project Benefits/Total Project Cost                                0.82
Net Benefit                                Total Project Benefits ­ Total Project Cost                          ($152,469)

Project isn't worth pursuing as costs outweigh benefits!  For convenience the interest rate for the benefit is taken as 9%
                                                          over a period of 3 years instead of annual rates for the 3 years 32
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

                    The Role of the
                    Project Manager

                                                                                                                                                                     33
                Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Session Overview

    · Overview
    · Definition of a Project Manager
    · The Project Manger's sphere of influence
    · Project Manager competencies
    · Performing Integration

                                                                                                                                                                                           34
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Overview
    Roles of a Project Manager:

     Responsibility for Team:
     · Project manager is responsible for what the team produce.
     · Project manager reviews the vision, mission, and objectives of the organization to ensure

        alignment with the products.
     · Project manager motivates the team towards the successful completion of the objectives.
     Knowledge and Skills:
     · Project manager should posses project management knowledge, technical knowledge,

        understanding, and experience.
     · The project manager provides the project team with leadership, planning, and coordination

        through communications.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35
                                          Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

The Project Manager's Sphere of Influence

· Project managers fulfill numerous roles within their
  sphere of influence

· Roles reflect project manager's capabilities and are
  representative of the value and contributions of the
  project management profession

· Project manager works to balance the competing
  constraints on the project with the resources available

· Project manager performs communication between
  sponsor, team members, and other stakeholders

· In order to achieve consensus, project manager uses soft
  skills to balance the conflicts and competing goals of the
  stakeholders

                                                                                                                                     PPP = Project, Program, Portfolio

                                                                                                                                                                                    Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­
                                                                                                                                                                                    Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 3-1, Page 55.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  36
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Manager Competencies

We know what                                 Training
we don't know
                                                           I can do it if I think
                                                                  about it

                                                           I can do it with help

Awareness                     Consciously    Consciously
                              Incompetent    Competent
                                                            Practice
                              Unconsciously  Unconsciously
                               Incompetent     Competent

We don't know what                           I can do it without
    we don't know                             thinking about it

                                                                                   37
                                        Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Manager Competencies
· Project manager should have three key skill sets (Talent Triangle):

   Technical project management: Technical aspects (knowledge,
     skills and behaviors) related to specific domains of project,
     program, and portfolio management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38
                                        Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Manager Competencies

   Strategic and business management: Knowledge, and
     expertise in the industry and organization that enhanced
     performance and better delivers business outcomes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Manager Competencies

    Leadership: Knowledge, skills, and behaviors needed to guide,
      motivate, and direct a team, to help organization to achieve
      its business goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40
                                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Project Manager Competencies

· Leadership skills: They involve the ability to guide, motivate, and direct a team. These skills include
   capabilities such as negotiation, flexibility, communication, problem solving, critical thinking, and
   interpersonal skills.

   Dealing with people:
   Qualities and skills of a leader

      Being a visionary, optimistic & positive, collaborative
      Manage relationships
      Accepting feedback graciously, giving feedback constructively
      Asking and listening
      Being respectful, courteous, friendly, kind, honest, trustworthy,

        loyal, and ethical
      Giving credit to other where due
      Focus on important things

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41
                                         Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

Comparison of Leadership and Management
  Leadership Vs Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

                                                                                                                                                                     43
                            Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

              1. Which of the following is not a project ?
A. A bridge on a Panama Canal
B. Developing content for a new course
C. Environmental awareness campaign
D. Running a cab

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 44
                            Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

              2. Scope, Schedule, Budget, Quality, Resources , Risks are called
A. Important knowledge areas
B. Process groups
C. Competing project constraints
D. Business objectives

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 45
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

3. The collection of generally sequential and sometimes overlapping project phases is known as  .

A. Project Management Office
B. Project Management Information systems
C. Project Life Cycle
D. Project Management methodology

                                                                                                   46
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        4. Which process group authorizes the project?
A. Initiating
B. Planning
C. Executing
D. Monitoring and Controlling

                                                                                                                                                                                                          47
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        5. Which of the following is not true about the initial phase of a project?
A. The cost associated at the beginning of the project is highest.
B. Stakeholders have maximum influence during this phase.
C. The highest uncertainty is at this stage of the project.
D. All the above statements are correct.

                                                                                                                                                                                                          48
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        6. Which of the following would be the MOST appropriate thing to do during the planning process group?
A. Work with stakeholders to determine their communication preferences
B. Determine the initial project organization
C. Refine control limits
D. Verify Scope

                                                                                                                                                                                                          49
                            Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

              7. Project A has a BCR of 1.4. What can we infer from this?
A. That Breaking distance is 140 percent of the cornering radius in a standardized performance test
B. That benefits are forty percent above costs
C. The costs exceed benefits by 40%
D. That Project A should be cancelled immediately, and all investments should be viewed as sunk costs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50
5  Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

1

   8. Project D has an IRR of 13%. What can we infer from this?

   A. Project D is a money loser
   B. Project D is rather profitable
   C. Thirteen percent of the implemented risk response plans in Project D have resulted in the manifestation of secondary risks.
   D. With an Integrated Risk Register of 13 percent, Project D is experiencing thirteen percent of the risks identified in the Risk

      management plan.

                                                                                                                                      51
5  Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

2

                 9. Project A has an NPV of $1.2 million; Project B has a BCR of 1.035; Project C has an IRR of -0.03 percent. Which of these
                 project appears to be most attractive?

   A. Project A
   B. Project B
   C. Project C
   D. Project C is least attractive, but we can't be sure whether A or B is most attractive

                                                                                                                                               52
                    Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

    10. Which of the following skills are not core competencies of a project manager ?
A. Project management skills
B. Business management skills
C. Leadership skills
D. Expert Technical skills

                                                                                                                                                                                                   53
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        11. In an project, Project Manager is trying to balance competing constraints. Which among the following is not true ?

A. The project manager is trying to balance Scope and Budget
B. The project manager is trying to balance Resources and Quality
C. The project manager is trying to balance Schedule and Risks
D. The project manager is trying to balance Scope and Procurements

                                                                                                                                                                                                         54
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        12. Which of the following is not true about Project Manager ?

A. The role of a Project Manager is distinct from that of a functional manager or operations manager
B. Project manager is the person assigned by the performing organization
C. Project manager leads the team to achieve project objectives
D. Project manager has to authorize business case along with business analyst

                                                                                                                                                                                                         55
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

       13. You are a project manager for an electrical manufacturing company involved in developing innovative components for
       renewable energy solutions. You have noticed that one of your team members is lacking knowledge in electronic component
       design. The same was intimated to him, and you tried sending him for training. However, the team member started arguing
       that he is an expert in electronic component design. Which of the following best describes this situation?

A. The team member is consciously incompetent
B. The team member is unconsciously incompetent
C. The team member is consciously competent
D. The team member is unconsciously competent

                                                                                                                                                                                                        56
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        14. During one of the standup meetings, a team member asked you the difference between standard and regulation. How
        would you respond ?

A. No difference. We can adopt them based on project requirements
B. Both have to be compulsorily followed based on project requirements
C. Standards are mandatory and regulations are optional
D. Regulations are mandatory and standards are optional

                                                                                                                                                                                                         57
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        15. How much time will project managers spend their time on a project in communicating ?

A. 90 percent
B. 45 percent
C. 70 percent
D. 20 percent

                                                                                                                                                                                                         58
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        16. You are assigned to an electronic product development project. You have earlier worked as a project manager for a few
        electronic devices and have successfully overseen their development. You have a complete understanding and knowledge of
        designing such electronic products. When the team is preparing detailed electronic schematics and plans, you are directing
        the team and correcting their mistakes. The team is modifying circuit designs as per your suggestions. Which type of power
        are you using here?

A. Reward Power
B. Coercive Power
C. Expert Power
D. Positional Power

                                                                                                                                                                                                        59
                       Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

        17. Which of the following is true about Leadership ?
A. The process of influencing a group toward the achievement of goals
B. A group that achieves goals
C. The function of influencing a group towards the achievement of goals
D. Directing a group towards the achievement of goals

                                                                                                                                                                                                         60
                                    Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

In the Next Lesson:

              Project Management: Part 2

      · Project Scope Management
      · Project Schedule Management

                                                                                                                                           61
Project Management -Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager

=== ch02-project-management-part2.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

       Project Management
                (Part 2)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                                Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

· Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager
· Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management
· Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management
· Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
        Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Project Scope Management

                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Session Overview

         · Project Scope Management
         · Product Scope and Project Scope
         · Scope Management Processes

            o Plan Scope Management
            o Collect Requirements
            o Define Scope
            o Create WBS
            o Validate Scope
            o Control Scope

                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Processes in Scope management

    · Project Scope Management includes the processes required to ensure that the project includes
       all the work required, and only the work required, to complete the project successfully

 Plan Scope      Collect   Define Scope  Create WBS  Validate Scope Control Scope
Management   Requirements

                                                                                                                       5
                                     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Project Scope Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Plan Scope Management                                                         Inputs:

                                                                     1. Project charter
                                                                     2. Project

                                                                           Management Plan

· The process of creating a scope management plan that documents       Tools & Techniques:
  how the project and product scope will be defined, validated, and
  controlled                                                         1. Expert Judgment
                                                                     2. Data analysis
                                                                     3. Meetings

· The key benefit of this process is that it provides guidance and              Outputs
  direction on how scope will be managed throughout the
  project                                                            1. Scope management
                                                                            plan

                                                                     2. Requirements
                                                                            management plan

                                                                                                  7
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements                                                                                                                                                          Inputs:

   · The process of determining, documenting, and managing                                                                                                           1. Project charter
      stakeholder needs and requirements to meet project                                                                                                             2. Project management plan
      objectives                                                                                                                                                     3. Project documents
                                                                                                                                                                     4. Business documents
                                                                                                                                                                     5. Agreements
                                                                                                                                                                     6. Enterprise environmental

                                                                                                                                                                           factors
                                                                                                                                                                     7. Organizational process

                                                                                                                                                                           assets

                                                                                                                                                                        Tools & Techniques:
                                                                                                                                                                      1. Expert Judgment
                                                                                                                                                                      2. Data analysis
                                                                                                                                                                      3. Data gathering
                                                                                                                                                                      4. Decision making
                                                                                                                                                                      5. Data representation
                                                                                                                                                                      6. Interpersonal and

                                                                                                                                                                           team skills
                                                                                                                                                                      7. Context diagram
                                                                                                                                                                      8. Prototypes

  · The key benefit of this process is that it provides the basis                                                                                                               Outputs
     for defining the product scope and project scope
                                                                                                                                                                     1. Requirements
Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure        documentation
5-4, Page 135.
                                                                                                                                                                     2. Requirements
                                                                                                                                                                           traceability matrix

                                                                                                                                                                                                         19
               Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements - Tools and Techniques                                         Inputs:

                                                                         1. Project charter
                                                                         2. Project management plan
                                                                         3. Project documents
                                                                         4. Business documents
                                                                         5. Agreements
                                                                         6. Enterprise environmental

                                                                               factors
                                                                         7. Organizational process

                                                                               assets

                           Data gathering                                  Tools & Techniques:

                                                                         1. Expert Judgment
                                                                         2. Data analysis
                                                                         3. Data gathering
                                                                         4. Decision making
                                                                         5. Data representation
                                                                         6. Interpersonal and team

                                                                               skills
                                                                         7. Context diagram
                                                                         8. Prototypes

                                                                             Outputs

                                                                         1. Requirements

                                                                             documentation

Brainstorming  Interviews  Focus groups      Questionnaires and surveys  2.  Requirements
                                                                             traceability matrix

                                                                                                      9
                         Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements - Tools and Techniques                                                        Inputs:

Benchmarking             Internal Benchmarking                  Process Benchmarking    1. Project charter
                                                                                        2. Project management plan
  Types of Benchmarking                            Further           Performance        3. Project documents
                                                  distilled as      Benchmarking        4. Business documents
                                                                                        5. Agreements
                                                                                        6. Enterprise environmental

                                                                                              factors
                                                                                        7. Organizational process

                                                                                              assets

                                                                                             Tools & Techniques:

                                                                                          1. Expert Judgment
                                                                                          2. Data analysis
                                                                                          3. Data gathering
                                                                                          4. Decision making
                                                                                          5. Data representation
                                                                                          6. Interpersonal and team

                                                                                                skills
                                                                                          7. Context diagram
                                                                                          8. Prototypes

                         External Benchmarking                                                     Outputs

                                                                Strategic Benchmarking  1. Requirements
                                                                                              documentation

                                                                                        2. Requirements
                                                                                              traceability matrix

                                                                                                                            10
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements - Tools and Techniques                                            Inputs:

     · Mind mapping ­ Consolidated brainstormed ideas are reflected with    1. Project charter
       commonalities and differences to understand and generate new ideas.  2. Project management plan
                                                                            3. Project documents
                                                                            4. Business documents
                                                                            5. Agreements
                                                                            6. Enterprise environmental

                                                                                  factors
                                                                            7. Organizational process

                                                                                  assets

                                                                              Tools & Techniques:

                                                                            1. Expert Judgment
                                                                            2. Data analysis
                                                                            3. Data gathering
                                                                            4. Decision making
                                                                            5. Data representation
                                                                            6. Interpersonal and team

                                                                                  skills
                                                                            7. Context diagram
                                                                            8. Prototypes

                                                                                       Outputs

                                                                            1. Requirements
                                                                                  documentation

                                                                            2. Requirements
                                                                                  traceability matrix

                                                                                                                11
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements - Tools and Techniques                           Inputs:

                                                           1. Project charter
                                                           2. Project management plan
                                                           3. Project documents
                                                           4. Business documents
                                                           5. Agreements
                                                           6. Enterprise environmental

                                                                 factors
                                                           7. Organizational process

                                                                 assets

Interpersonal and team skills  Nominal group technique         Tools & Techniques:
                               Observation / conversation   1. Expert Judgment
                                                            2. Data analysis
                                                            3. Data gathering
                                                            4. Decision making
                                                            5. Data representation
                                                            6. Interpersonal and

                                                                  team skills
                                                            7. Context diagram
                                                            8. Prototypes

                                                                      Outputs

                                                           1. Requirements
                                                                 documentation

                                                           2. Requirements
                                                                 traceability matrix

                                                                                              12
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Collect Requirements - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

  Context diagram                            1. Project charter
   · High level map of a system and its      2. Project management plan
                                             3. Project documents
     surrounding environment                 4. Business documents
                                             5. Agreements
   Prototypes                                6. Enterprise environmental
   · A working model of the product
                                                   factors
     before fully developing it. Feedback    7. Organizational process
     is given on this to develop it fully.
   · Also known as mockups and                     assets
     storyboards depending on industry            Tools & Techniques:

                                                  Tools & Techniques:
                                                1. Expert Judgment
                                                2. Data analysis
                                                3. Data gathering
                                                4. Decision making
                                                5. Data representation
                                                6. Interpersonal and team

                                                      skills
                                                7. Context diagram
                                                8. Prototypes

                                                          Outputs

                                                          Outputs

                                              1. Requirements
                                                     documentation

                                              2. Requirements
                                                     traceability matrix

                                                                                  13
              Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Define Scope                                                                   Inputs:

                                                                     1. Project charter
                                                                     2. Project management

                                                                            plan
                                                                     3. Project documents
                                                                     4. Enterprise

                                                                            Environmental Factors
                                                                     5. Organizational Process

                                                                            Assets

· The process of developing a detailed description of the project      Tools & Techniques:
   and product.
                                                                     1. Expert Judgment
· The key benefit of this process is that it describes the product,  2. Data analysis
  service, or result boundaries and acceptance criteria              3. Decision making
                                                                     4. Interpersonal and

                                                                          team skills
                                                                     5. Product analysis

                                                                               Outputs

                                                                     1. Project scope statement

                                                                     2. Project documents
                                                                     updates

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-8, Page 148.  14
Create WBS  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                                                                                                                                                                                       Inputs:

                                                                                                                                                                             1. Project management
                                                                                                                                                                                   plan

                                                                                                                                                                             2. Project documents
                                                                                                                                                                             3. Enterprise

                                                                                                                                                                                   Environmental Factors
                                                                                                                                                                             4. Organizational

                                                                                                                                                                                   Process Assets

· The process of subdividing project deliverables and project                                                                                                                         Tools & Techniques:
  work into smaller, more manageable components
                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Expert Judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Decomposition

· The key benefit of this process is that it provides a                                                                                                                                        Outputs
  framework of what has to be delivered
                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Scope baseline
                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Project document

                                                                                                                                                                                            updates

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.                        15
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Create WBS - Tools and Techniques                                         Inputs:
                                                                 1. Project management
    Expert judgment
   · Expert Judgement is based upon expertise in an application       plan
                                                                 2. Project documents
     area, knowledge area, or discipline for the appropriate     3. Enterprise
     activity being performed.
   · Such as related skill, training, specialized education,          Environmental Factors
     knowledge, experience etc.                                  4. Organizational

                                                                      Process Assets

                                                                    Tools & Techniques:

                                                                   1. Expert Judgment

                                                                            Outputs

                                                                 1. Scope baseline
                                                                 2. Project document

                                                                        updates

                                                                                             16
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Create WBS - Tools and Techniques                                               Inputs:
                                                                       1. Project management
 Decomposition
                                                                            plan
  · Identifying and analyzing the deliverables and related work        2. Project documents
  · Structuring and organizing the WBS                                 3. Enterprise
  · Decomposing the upper WBS levels into lower-level detailed
                                                                            Environmental Factors
    components                                                         4. Organizational
  · Developing and assigning identification codes to the WBS
                                                                            Process Assets
    components
  · Verifying that the degree of decomposition of the deliverables is     Tools & Techniques:

    appropriate                                                           2. Decomposition

                                                                                  Outputs

                                                                        1. Scope baseline
                                                                        2. Project document

                                                                               updates

                                                                                                   17
                                  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

WBS Types

WBS Decomposed Down Through Work Packages

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.  18
                                  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

WBS Types

WBS Organized by Phase

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.  19
                                  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

WBS Types

WBS with Major Deliverables

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.  20
Validate Scope  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                                                                                                                                                                                        Inputs:

                                                                                                                                                                               1. Project management
                                                                                                                                                                                     plan

                                                                                                                                                                               2. Project documents
                                                                                                                                                                              3. Verified deliverables
                                                                                                                                                                               4. Work performance

                                                                                                                                                                                     data

· The process of formalizing acceptance of the completed              Tools & Techniques:
  project deliverables
                                                                    1. Inspection
                                                                    2. Decision making

· The key benefit of this process is that it brings objectivity to             Outputs
  the acceptance process and increases the probability of final
  product, service, or result acceptance by validating each         1. Accepted deliverables
  deliverable                                                       2. Work performance

                                                                         information
                                                                    3. Change requests
                                                                    4. Project documents

                                                                         updates

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.                     21
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Validate Scope - Tools and Techniques           Inputs:

                        Inspection     1. Project management
                        · Measuring         plan
                        · Examining
                        · Validating   2. Project documents
                                       3. Verified deliverables
                                       4. Work performance

                                            data

                                          Tools & Techniques:

                                       1. Inspection
                                       2. Decision making

Decision making                                   Outputs

· Voting                               1. Accepted deliverables
                                       2. Work performance

                                            information
                                       3. Change requests
                                       4. Project documents

                                            updates

                                                                         22
               Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Control Scope                                                             Inputs:

                                                                 1. Project management
                                                                      plan

                                                                 2. Project documents
                                                                 3. Work performance

                                                                      data
                                                                 4. Organizational process

                                                                      assets

· The process of monitoring the status of the project and                                                                                                                            Tools & Techniques:
  product scope and managing changes to the scope baseline

                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Data analysis

· The key benefit of this process is that the scope baseline is             Outputs
  maintained throughout the project
                                                                 1. Work performance
                                                                      information

                                                                 2. Change requests
                                                                 3. Project management

                                                                      plan updates
                                                                 4. Project documents

                                                                      updates

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 5-10, Page 153.                       23
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Control Scope - Tools and Techniques                                                   Inputs:
                                                                              1. Project management
  Data analysis
   · Variance analysis                                                              plan
                                                                              2. Project documents
         A technique for determining the cause and degree of difference       3. Work performance
            between the baseline and actual performance.
                                                                                    data
          Project performance measurements are used to assess the             4. Organizational process
            magnitude of variation from the original scope baseline.
                                                                                    assets
          Important aspects of project scope control include determining the
            cause and degree of variance relative to the scope baseline and       Tools & Techniques:
            deciding whether corrective or preventive action is required
                                                                               1. Data analysis
  · Trend analysis
        Examines project performance over time to determine if                           Outputs
          performance is improving or deteriorating                           1. Work performance

                                                                                   information
                                                                              2. Change requests
                                                                              3. Project management

                                                                                   plan updates
                                                                              4. Project documents

                                                                                   updates

                                                                                                                   24
     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Project Schedule Management
          Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Session Overview

    · Project Schedule Management
    · Scheduling Overview
    · Schedule Management Processes

       o Plan Schedule Management
       o Define Activities
       o Sequence Activities
       o Estimate Activity Durations
       o Develop Schedule
       o Control Schedule

                                                                                                                                                                                              26
              Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Key concepts

· Creating a schedule model requires methods (like
   Critical Path Method), information (like estimates),
   and tools (like spreadsheets or software).

                                                                                                 227
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Tailoring considerations

                · Lifecycle approach
                · Resource availability
                · Project dimensions
                · Technology support

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     228
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                                                                                                                                                                         29
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Processes in schedule management

    · Project Schedule Management includes the processes required to manage the timely
       completion of the project.

Plan Schedule   Define     Sequence    Estimate   Develop    Control
Management     Activities  Activities   Activity  Schedule  Schedule
                                       Durations

                                                                                                                       30
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Plan Schedule Management                                                  Inputs:

                                                                1. Project charter
                                                                2. Project management

                                                                     plan
                                                                3. Enterprise

                                                                     Environmental Factors
                                                                4. Organizational Process

                                                                     Assets

· The process of establishing the policies, procedures, and     Tools & Techniques:
   documentation for planning, developing, managing,
   executing, and controlling the project schedule              1. Expert Judgment
                                                                2. Data Analysis
                                                                3. Meetings

· The key benefit of this process is that it provides guidance        Outputs
   and direction on how the project schedule will be
   managed throughout the project                               1. Schedule
                                                                     management plan

                                                                                            31
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Define Activities                                                              Inputs:
                                                                     1. Project management
        · The process of identifying and documenting the specific
           actions to be performed to produce the project                plan
           deliverables                                              2. Enterprise

        · The key benefit of this process is that it decomposes its      environmental
           work packages into activities that provide a basis for        factors
           estimating, scheduling, executing, monitoring, and        3. Organizational
           controlling the project work                                  Process Assets

                                                                       Tools & Techniques:

                                                                        1. Expert judgment
                                                                        2. Decomposition
                                                                        3. Rolling wave

                                                                              planning
                                                                        4. Meetings

                                                                              Outputs
                                                                       1. Activity list
                                                                       2. Activity attributes
                                                                       3. Milestone list
                                                                       4. Change requests
                                                                       5. Project

                                                                             management plan
                                                                             updates

                                                                                                        32
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Sequence Activities                                                         Inputs:

 · The process of identifying and documenting relationships       1. Project management
    among the project activities                                       plan

                                                                  2. Enterprise
                                                                       Environmental Factors

                                                                  3. Organizational Process
                                                                       Assets

                                                                    Tools & Techniques:
                                                                  1. Precedence
                                                                  diagramming method
                                                                  2. Dependency
                                                                  determination and
                                                                  integration
                                                                  3. Leads and lags
                                                                  4. Project management
                                                                  information system

· The key benefit of this process is that it defines the logical           Outputs
   sequence of work to obtain the greatest efficiency given all
   project constraints                                            1. Project schedule
                                                                       network diagrams

                                                                  2. Project documents
                                                                       updates

                                                                                                33
3
4
   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

   Sequence Activities - Tools and Techniques                                      Inputs:

                                                                         1. Project management
                                                                              plan

                                                                         2. Enterprise
                                                                              Environmental Factors

                                                                         3. Organizational Process
                                                                              Assets

    Precedence diagramming                             Leads and lags      Tools & Techniques:
           method (PDM)                                                  1. Precedence
                                                    Project Information  diagramming method
   Dependency determination                    Management System (PMIS)  2. Dependency
          and Integration                                                determination and
                                                                         integration
                                                                         3. Leads and lags
                                                                         4. Project management
                                                                         information system

                                                                                  Outputs

                                                                         1. Project schedule
                                                                              network diagrams

                                                                         2. Project documents
                                                                              updates

                                                                                                            34
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Precedence diagramming method (PDM)

  · A technique used for constructing a schedule model
  · Activities are represented by nodes and are graphically linked by one or more logical

      relationships
  · Show the sequence in which the activities are to be performed
  · Also known as Activity-on-node (AON): It's the most common approach to network

      diagramming
  · A predecessor activity is an activity that logically comes before a dependent activity in a schedule
  · A successor activity is a dependent activity that logically comes after another activity in a

      schedule

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35
                                  Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Precedence diagramming method (PDM)
   PDM includes four types of dependencies or logical relationships as shown below

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK®Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 6-9, Page 190.  36
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Precedence diagramming method (PDM)

                           Successor activity cannot start until predecessor activity has finished ­ this is

      Finish-to-start (FS)

                           the most common of these

                          The awards ceremony (successor) cannot start until the race (predecessor) has finished.

    Finish-to-finish (FF) Successor activity cannot finish until predecessor activity has finished

                          The inspection cannot finish until the painting is completely finished.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37
                                     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Precedence diagramming method (PDM)

Start-to-start (SS) Successor activity cannot start until predecessor activity has started

                   Start painting (successor) can begin immediately after you start priming the wall (predecessor).

Start-to-finish (SF)  Successor activity cannot finish until a predecessor activity has started ­
                      this is the least common of these

The first security guard shift (successor) cannot finish until the second security guard shift (predecessor) starts

                                                                                                                        38
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Leads and Lags                                                                         A

    Lead is the amount of time whereby a successor activity can be                  FS - 2 weeks (Lead)
    advanced with respect to a predecessor activity. Lead is often
    represented as a negative value for lag in scheduling software.                             B

                       In the project to manufacture a new smartphone, the
                       packaging and preparation for shipment could be scheduled
                       to start two weeks prior to the scheduled completion of the
                       final quality assurance checks and testing.

Lag is the amount of time whereby a successor activity will be                                A

delayed with respect to a predecessor activity.                                     SS + 15 Days (Lag)

                 A software development team may commence the debugging                          B
                 and optimization phase of a new software application 15 days
                 after initiating the coding and implementation phase.

                                                                                                         39
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Sequence Activities - Outputs                                                         Inputs:

  Project Schedule Network Diagrams                                         1. Project management
  · A graphical representation of the logical relationships / dependencies       plan

      among the project schedule activities.                                2. Enterprise
                                                                                 Environmental Factors

                                                                            3. Organizational Process
                                                                                 Assets

                                                                              Tools & Techniques:
                                                                            1. Precedence
                                                                            diagramming method
                                                                            2. Dependency
                                                                            determination and
                                                                            integration
                                                                            3. Leads and lags
                                                                            4. Project management
                                                                            information system

                                                                                     Outputs

                                                                            1. Project schedule
                                                                                 network diagrams

                                                                            2. Project documents
                                                                                 updates

                                                                                                                40
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Estimate Activity Durations                                                        Inputs:

      · The process of estimating the number of work periods needed      1. Project management
         to complete individual activities with the estimated resources       plan

                                                                         2. Project documents
                                                                         3. Enterprise

                                                                              Environmental Factors
                                                                         4. Organizational Process

                                                                              Assets

· The key benefit of this process is that it provides the                  Tools & Techniques:
   amount of time each activity will take to complete                    1. Expert judgment
                                                                         2. Analogous estimating
                                                                         3. Parametric estimating
                                                                         4. Three-point estimating
                                                                         5. Bottom-up estimating
                                                                         6. Data analysis
                                                                         7. Decision making
                                                                         8. Meetings

                                                                                 Outputs

                                                                          1. Duration estimates
                                                                          2. Basis of estimates
                                                                          3. Project documents

                                                                               updates

                                                                                                     41
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Estimate Activity Durations - Tools and Techniques                                             Inputs:

Three-point estimating                                                               1. Project management
                                                                                          plan
· PERT (program evaluation and review technique) uses three estimates to
   define an activity's duration - Most likely (M), Optimistic (O), Pessimistic (P)  2. Project documents
                                                                                     3. Enterprise
· Expected duration (E) is calculated in two methods:
   Triangular Distribution. E = (O + M + P) / 3                                           Environmental Factors
   Beta Distribution (from the traditional PERT technique). E = (O + 4M + P) / 6     4. Organizational Process

      Standard deviation  = P-O                        Variance= 2                        Assets

                                                    6                                  Tools & Techniques:
P ­ Pessimistic estimate O ­ Optimistic estimate                                     1. Expert judgment
                                                                                     2. Analogous estimating
                                                                                     3. Parametric estimating
                                                                                     4. Three-point estimating
                                                                                     5. Bottom-up estimating
                                                                                     6. Data analysis
                                                                                     7. Decision making
                                                                                     8. Meetings

Bottom-Up estimating                                                                        Outputs

· Estimating project duration or cost by aggregating the estimates of the lower-     1. Duration estimates
   level components of the WBS                                                       2. Basis of estimates
                                                                                     3. Project documents

                                                                                          updates

                                                                                                                   42
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Example

 Q. John is managing a project to build a new project management information system. He works with the team to
 come up with a most likely estimate of 15 weeks. In the best case, optimistically this could be shortened by two weeks
 because he can reuse a previous component. But there's a risk that a vendor delay could cause the project to be
 delayed pessimistically by five weeks. In case using three-point estimating, what are the expected duration based on
 Triangular Distribution and Beta Distribution separately, and the standard deviation of these estimates?

 Answer:
 O=15-2=13 M=15 P=15+5= 20
 Triangular Distribution. E = (O + M + P) / 3  E = (13 + 15 + 20) / 3 = 16
 Beta Distribution (from the traditional PERT technique). E = (O + 4M + P) / 6  E = (13 + 60 + 20) / 6 = 15.5
 Standard Deviation = (P - O) / 6 = (20 - 13)/6 = 1.17

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Develop Schedule                                                                                                                                                                               Inputs:

   · The process of analyzing activity sequences, durations,                                                                                                                         1. Project management
      resource requirements, and schedule constraints to create                                                                                                                            plan
      the project schedule model for project execution and
      monitoring and controlling                                                                                                                                                     2. Project documents
                                                                                                                                                                                     3. Agreements
                                                                                                                                                                                     4. Enterprise

                                                                                                                                                                                           Environmental Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                     5. Organizational Process

                                                                                                                                                                                           Assets

                                                                                                                                                                                        Tools & Techniques:

                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Schedule network analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Critical path method
                                                                                                                                                                                     3. Resource optimization
                                                                                                                                                                                     4. Data analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                     5. Leads and lags
                                                                                                                                                                                     6. Schedule compression
                                                                                                                                                                                     7. Project management

                                                                                                                                                                                           information system
                                                                                                                                                                                     8. Agile release planning

· The key benefit of this process is that it generates a                                                                                                                                    Outputs
    schedule model with planned dates for completing project
    activities                                                                                                                                                                       1. Schedule baseline
                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Project schedule
Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 6-14, Page 205.  3. Schedule data
                                                                                                                                                                                     4. Project calendars
                                                                                                                                                                                     5. Change requests
                                                                                                                                                                                     6. Project management

                                                                                                                                                                                           plan updates
                                                                                                                                                                                     7. Project documents

                                                                                                                                                                                           updates

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Develop Schedule - Tools and Techniques

 Schedule network analysis: Generates the project schedule model using various analytical techniques, e.g.,

  critical path method, resource optimization techniques and modeling techniques.

 Critical path method:

 · Critical path is the sequence of activities that represents the longest path
    through a project, which determines the minimum possible project
    duration.

 · This is a schedule network analysis technique calculates the early start,
    early finish, late start, and late finish dates for all activities without regard
    for any resource limitations by performing a forward and backward pass
    analysis through the schedule network.

 · Total Float (Slack) - the amount of time that a schedule activity can be
    delayed or extended from its early start date without delaying the project
    finish date or violating a schedule constraint.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Critical Path Method ­ Example (1/5)

Activity  Duration  Predecessor
   A          4          ----
    B         5           F
    C         8           H
   D          5          ----
    E        10           D
    F         9          A,D
   G          5          E,F
   H          3           G

                                                                                                                      46
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Critical Path Method ­ Example (2/5)

Total Number of Paths: 5                    3. Start-D-F-B-End 4. Start-A-F-G-H-C-End
1. Start-D-E-G-H-C-End 2. Start-D-F-G-H-C-
End 5. Start-A-F-B-End

                                                                                                                      47
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Critical Path Method ­ Example (3/5)
Perform Forward Pass

          EF = ES + D - 1, when we start from 1
          EF = ES + D, when we start from 0 (as in this example)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Critical Path Method ­ Example (4/5)
Perform Backward Pass

             LF = LS + D - 1, when we start from 1
             LF = LS + D, when we start from 0 (as in this example)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49
                                    Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Critical Path Method ­ Example (5/5)
Total Float

          Total float = LF - EF = LS - ES
          Critical Path: Start-D-E-G-H-C-End
          Duration of Critical Path: 31

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Resource Optimization

    · Start and finish dates are adjusted based on resource constraints with the goal of
       balancing demand for resources with the available supply (Resource leveling)

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 6-17, Page 212.  51
                                   Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Schedule Compression

 Schedule compression techniques are
 used to shorten or accelerate the
 schedule duration without reducing
 the project scope in order to meet
 schedule constraints, imposed dates,
 or other schedule objectives. Main
 schedule compression techniques are:

 · Crashing
 · Fast tracking

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 6-19, Page 215.  52
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Develop Schedule - Outputs                 Inputs:

    Project schedule             1. Project management
                                       plan
     A schedule model that
     presents linked activities  2. Project documents
     with planned dates,         3. Agreements
     durations, milestones, and  4. Enterprise
     resources
                                       Environmental Factors
                                 5. Organizational Process

                                       Assets

                                    Tools & Techniques:

                                 1. Schedule network analysis
                                 2. Critical path method
                                 3. Resource optimization
                                 4. Data analysis
                                 5. Leads and lags
                                 6. Schedule compression
                                 7. Project management

                                       information system
                                 8. Agile release planning

                                        Outputs

                                 1. Schedule baseline
                                 2. Project schedule
                                 3. Schedule data
                                 4. Project calendars
                                 5. Change requests
                                 6. Project management

                                       plan updates
                                 7. Project documents

                                       updates

                                                                  53
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

Control Schedule                                                         Inputs:
                                                              1. Project
      · The process of monitoring the status of project to
         update the project schedule and managing changes          management plan
         to the schedule baseline                             2. Project documents
                                                              3. Work performance
      · The key benefit of this process is that the schedule
         baseline is maintained throughout the project             data
                                                              4. Organizational

                                                                   Process Assets

                                                                Tools & Techniques:

                                                              1. Data analysis
                                                              2. Critical path method
                                                              3. Project management

                                                                   information system
                                                              4. Resource optimization
                                                              5. Leads and lags
                                                              6. Schedule compression

                                                                       Outputs
                                                              1. Work performance

                                                                    information
                                                              2. Schedule forecasts
                                                              3. Change requests
                                                              4. Project management

                                                                    plan updates
                                                              5. Project documents

                                                                    updates

                                                                                               54
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                                                                                                                                                                              55
                     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

            1.Carmen is just about to deliver the case study commissioned by the Tesla Gigafactory project. Before she does, she
            arranges a meeting with the steering committee and project sponsor associated with the Tesla Gigafactory to take
            them through the case study, answer any questions or concerns they may have, and seek to get an official
            confirmation that the case study meets their expectations. What process is she performing here?

A. Deliverables Acceptance
B. Accept Deliverables
C. Close Project or Phase
D. Validate Scope

                                                                                                                                                                                                                56
                 Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

        2. A Software project manager is working on collecting requirements and establishing estimates for the project. Which
        process group are we looking at here?
A. Planning
B. Executing
C. Initiating
D. Monitoring and Controlling

                                                                                                                                                                                                          57
                     Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

             3. Which of the following statements about the WBS is most correct?
A. WBS stands for Work Breakdown Statement
B. The WBS includes 100 percent of the work of the project
C. Any work not included in the WBS is out of scope
D. B & C

                                                                                                                                                                                                               58
                              Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                      4. Which of the following is the full and correctly ordered list of processes in the Project Schedule Management
                      Knowledge Area?
A. Define Activities, Sequence Activities, Estimate Activity Durations, Develop Schedule, Control Schedule
B. Define Activities, Estimate Activity Durations, Develop Schedule, Control Schedule
C. Plan Schedule Management, Define Activities, Sequence Activities, Estimate Activity Durations, Develop Schedule, Control Schedule
D. Control Schedule, Sequence Activities, Estimate Activity Durations, Define Activities, Plan Schedule Management, Develop Schedule

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             59
                         Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

                5 . Which of the following is true about Resource optimization?

A.Resource optimization is an input to Estimate Activity Duration, which gives information about available resources to
calculate durations
B.Resource optimization is a tool & technique within Develop Schedule, to adjust resource load levels to make them less
variable
C.Resource optimization is a tool & technique within Estimate Activity Durations, to adjust durations so as to optimize
resource load levels
D.Resource optimization is a tool & technique within Plan Schedule Management, to establish the target rate of resource
churn

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60
                              Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

In the Next Lesson:

               Project Management: Part 3

      · Project Cost Management
      · Project Resource Management

                                                                                                                                           61
Project Management -Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management

=== ch04-project-management-part4.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

       Project Management
                (Part 4)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                            Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

· Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager
· Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management
· Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management
· Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
          Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Project Communications Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                 Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Session Overview

   · Communications Management Processes
          o Plan Communications Management
          o Manage Communications
          o Monitor Communications

                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                 Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Project Communications Management

   Project Communications Management includes the processes necessary to ensure that the information
   needs of the project and its stakeholders are met through development of documentation and
   implementation of activities designed to achieve effective information exchange.

       Plan          Manage          Monitor
Communications  Communications  Communications

  Management

                                                                                                                         5
                                Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Communications Management

  · Project managers spend most of their time communicating
       with team members and other project stakeholders, both
       internal (at all organizational levels) and external to the
       organization.

  · Number of potential communication channels = n(n ­ 1)/2

  · Communication activities have many dimensions, including but
       not limited to:

       o Internal
       o External
       o Formal
       o Informal
       o Hierarchical focus (upward, downward, horizontal)
       o Official
       o Unofficial
       o Written and oral

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Communications Management                                                 Inputs:

  · The process of developing an appropriate approach and plan      1. Project charter
     for project communication activities based on the information  2. Project management
     needs of each stakeholder or group, available organizational
     assets, and the needs of the project.                               plan
                                                                    3. Project documents
  · The key benefit of this process is a documented approach to     4. Enterprise
     effectively and efficiently engage stakeholders by presenting
     relevant information in a timely manner.                            Environmental Factors
                                                                    5. Organizational Process

                                                                         Assets

                                                                         Tools & Techniques:
                                                                    1. Expert judgment
                                                                    2. Communication requirements

                                                                        analysis
                                                                    3. Communication technology
                                                                    4. Communication models
                                                                    5. Communication methods
                                                                    6. Interpersonal and team skills
                                                                    7. Data representation
                                                                    8. Meetings

                                                                                 Outputs

                                                                    1. Communications
                                                                          management plan

                                                                    2. Project management
                                                                          plan updates

                                                                    3. Project documents
                                                                          updates

                                                                                                           7
                                Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Communication Technology

    Factors that can affect the choice of communication technology (e.g., conversations, meetings,
    written documents, databases, social media, and websites ) include:

      · Urgency of the need for information
      · Availability and reliability of technology
      · Ease of Use
      · Project environment
      · Sensitivity and confidentiality of the information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                               Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Communication Models

    Sample Basic sender / receiver communication model
    This model consists of two parties, defined as the sender and receiver, and concerned with
    ensuring that the message is delivered, rather than understood

      · Encode
      · Transmit message
      · Decode

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                               Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Communication Models

   Interactive communication model
   A process consisting of two parties (sender and receiver) but recognizes the need to ensure that the
   message has been understood. In addition to basic model, the additional steps are:
   · Acknowledge
   · Feedback/Response

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Communication Methods

  Interactive communication      Push communication             Pull communication

e.g., meetings, phone calls,   e.g., letters, memos, reports,  e.g., web portals, intranet
instant messaging, some forms  emails, faxes, voice mails,     sites, e-learning, lessons
of social media, and           blogs, and press releases.      learned databases, or
videoconferencing.                                             knowledge repositories.

                                                                                                                        11
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Manage Communications                                                          Inputs:

 · The process of ensuring timely and appropriate collection,       1. Project management
    creation, distribution, storage, retrieval, management,               plan
    monitoring and the ultimate disposition of project
    information.                                                    2. Project documents
                                                                    3. Work performance
 · The key benefit of this process is that it enables an efficient
    and effective information flow between the project team               reports
    and the stakeholders.                                           4. Enterprise

                                                                          Environmental Factors
                                                                    5. Organizational Process

                                                                          Assets

                                                                         Tools & Techniques:

                                                                    1. Communication technology
                                                                    2. Communication methods
                                                                    3. Communication skills
                                                                    4. Project

                                                                          management
                                                                          information system
                                                                    5. Project reporting
                                                                    6. Interpersonal and team
                                                                          skills
                                                                    7. Meetings

                                                                                 Outputs

                                                                      1. Project
                                                                           communications

                                                                      2. Project management
                                                                           plan updates

                                                                      3. Project documents
                                                                           updates

                                                                      4. Organizational process
                                                                           assets updates

                                                                                                           12
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Techniques and considerations for effective communications management

Sender-receiver models  Incorporating feedback loops to provide opportunities for interaction/participation and
   Choice of media      remove barriers to effective communication.
      Writing style
                        When to communicate in writing versus orally, when to prepare an informal memo versus a
                        formal report, and when to use push/pull options and the choice of appropriate technology

                        Appropriate use of active versus passive voice, sentence structure, and word choice.

Meeting management      Preparing an agenda, inviting essential participants, and dealing with conflicts in the meeting.
      Presentations
                        Awareness of the impact of body language and design of visual aids
    Active Listening
                        Listening actively (acknowledging, clarifying, and confirming understanding) and removal of
                        barriers that adversely affect comprehension

                                                                                        13
                Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Manage Communications ­ Tools and Techniques                                                                                   Inputs:

Communications Skills                                     Interpersonal and team skills                             1. Project management
                                                                                                                          plan
                Presentation                               · Active listening
                    Skills                                 · Conflict management                                    2. Project documents
                                                           · Cultural awareness                                     3. Work performance
Teamwork                      Negotiation Skills           · Meeting management
                                                           · Networking                                                   reports
                                                           · Political awareness                                    4. Enterprise

Selling Skills  Communication Skills    Business                                                                          Environmental Factors
                                      Writing Skills                                                                5. Organizational Process

                                                          Removing all                                                    Assets
                                                           distractions
                                                                                                                         Tools & Techniques:
   Win-Win                            Influencing Skills
Conversations                                                                                                       1. Communication technology
                 Cross-Cultural                                                                                     2. Communication methods
                Communication                             Feeding back that                         Listening to    3. Communication skills
                                                               you have                          speaker's signs &  4. Project

                                                             understood                                sounds             management
                                                                               Active Listening                           information system
                                                                                                                    5. Project reporting
                                                                                    means:                          6. Interpersonal and team
                                                                                                                          skills
                                                                                                                    7. Meetings

                                                                                                                                 Outputs

                                                                                                                      1. Project
                                                                                                                           communications

                                                                                                                      2. Project management
                                                                                                                           plan updates

                                                                                                                      3. Project documents
                                                                                                                           updates

                                                                                                                      4. Organizational process
                                                                                                                           assets updates

                                                                                                                                                       14
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Monitor Communications                                                       Inputs:
                                                                   1. Project management
   · The process of ensuring the information needs of the project
      and its stakeholders are met.                                     plan
                                                                   2. Project documents
   · The key benefit of this process is the optimal information    3. Work performance
     flow as defined in the communications management plan
     and the stakeholder engagement plan. This process is               reports
     performed throughout the project.                             4. Enterprise

                                                                        Environmental Factors
                                                                   5. Organizational Process

                                                                        Assets

                                                                        Tools & Techniques:

                                                                   1. Expert judgment
                                                                   2. Project management

                                                                        Information system
                                                                   3. Data analysis
                                                                   4. Interpersonal and team

                                                                        skills
                                                                   5. Meetings

                                                                               Outputs

                                                                    1. Work performance
                                                                          information

                                                                    2. Change requests
                                                                    3. Project management

                                                                          plan updates
                                                                    4. Project documents

                                                                          updates

                                                                                                        15
  Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                 Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Session Overview

      · Risk Management Processes
           o Plan Risk Management
           o Identify Risks
           o Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis
           o Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
           o Plan Risk Responses
           o Implement Risk Responses
           o Monitor Risks

                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Project Risk Management

 · Project Risk Management includes the processes of conducting risk management planning,
    identification, analysis, response planning, and controlling risk on a project.

  Plan Risk  Identify      Perform       Perform   Plan Risk          Implement Risk  Monitor
Management    Risks    Qualitative Risk                                  responses      Risks
                                         Quantitative Risk Responses
                           Analysis
                                         Analysis

                                                                                                                        18
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Management                                                      Inputs:
                                                                1. Project charter
 · The process of defining how to conduct risk management       2. Project management
    activities for a project.
                                                                     plan
 · The key benefit of this process is that it ensures that the  3. Project documents
    degree, type and visibility of risk management are          4. Enterprise
    appropriate to both the level of risk exposure and the
    importance of the project to the organization and other          environmental factors
    stakeholders.                                               5. Organizational process

                                                                     assets

                                                                    Tools & Techniques:

                                                                1. Expert Judgment
                                                                2. Data analysis
                                                                3. Meetings

                                                                            Outputs

                                                                1. Risk management
                                                                plan

                                                                                            19
                  Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Management - Outputs                                                                         Inputs:

    Risk Management Plan - A component of the project management plan and describes how      1. Project charter
    risk management activities will be structured and performed. It contains the following:
                                                                                             2. Project management
Risk strategy     Describe the general approach to managing risk on the project
                                                                                                  plan
                                                                                             3. Project documents
                                                                                             4. Enterprise

                                                                                                  environmental factors
                                                                                             5. Organizational process

                                                                                                  assets

Methodology       Defines the approaches, tools, and data sources that will be used              Tools & Techniques:
Roles and
responsibilities  Defines the lead, support, and risk management team members                1. Expert Judgment
Funding           for each activity                                                          2. Data analysis
                                                                                             3. Meetings
Timing            Identifies the funds needed to perform activities
                                                                                                        Outputs
Risk categories   Defines when and how often the risk management processes will
                  be performed                                                               1. Risk management
                  Provide a means for grouping individual project risks. common              plan
                  way to structure risk categories is with a Risk Breakdown
                  Structure (RBS).                                                                                                20
                        Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Management - Outputs                                                                           Inputs:
                                                                                               1. Project charter

                                                                                               2. Project management

                                                                                               plan

Stakeholder risk         Measurable risk thresholds of each project objective, helps           3. Project documents
appetite                 determine acceptable level of project risk exposure                   4. Enterprise

                                                                                                    environmental factors
                                                                                               5. Organizational process

                                                                                               assets

Definitions of risk      Definitions of probability and impact levels are specific to the project
probability and impacts
                                                                                                                                                                                       Tools & Techniques:

Probability and impact   Prioritization rules may be specified by the organization in advance  1. Expert Judgment
matrix                   of the project, and they may be tailored to the specific project      2. Data analysis
                                                                                               3. Meetings
Reporting formats        Define how the outcomes of risk management process will be
                         documented, analyzed and communicated

Tracking                 Documents how risk activities will be recorded and how risk                 Outputs

                         management processes will be audited

                                                                                               1. Risk management
                                                                                               plan

                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
          Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Examples

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 11-4, Page 317, Table 11-1, Page 407, and Figure 11-5, Page 408. .  22
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Identify Risks                                                                  Inputs:
                                                                     1. Project management plan
   · The process of identifying individual project risks as well as  2. Project documents
       sources of overall project risk and documenting their         3. Agreements
       characteristics.                                              4. Procurement

   · The key benefit of this process is the documentation of              documentation
       existing individual project risks and the sources of overall  5. Enterprise environmental
       project risk.
                                                                          factors
                                                                     6. Organizational process

                                                                          assets

                                                                          Tools & Techniques:
                                                                      1. Expert judgment
                                                                      2. Data gathering
                                                                      3. Data analysis
                                                                      4. Interpersonal and

                                                                            team skills
                                                                      5. Prompt lists
                                                                      6. Meetings

                                                                                  Outputs

                                                                          1. Risk register
                                                                          2. Risk report
                                                                          3. Project

                                                                                documents
                                                                                updates

                                                                                                         23
                       Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Identify Risks - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

            Data Gathering             1. Project management plan
                                       2. Project documents
               · Brainstorming         3. Agreements
               · Checklists
               · Interviews            4. Procurement
                                            documentation

                                       5. Enterprise environmental
                                            factors

                                       6. Organizational process
                                            assets

Data Analysis                              Tools & Techniques:
                                       1. Expert judgment
· Root cause analysis                  2. Data gathering
· SWOT Analysis                        3. Data analysis
                                       4. Interpersonal and

                                            team skills
                                       5. Prompt lists
                                       6. Meetings

                                                   Outputs

                                           1. Risk register
                                           2. Risk report
                                           3. Project

                                                documents
                                                updates

                                                                          24
                              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Identify Risks - Outputs                                                                                                Inputs:
                                                                                                             1. Project management plan
 Risk Register:                                                                                              2. Project documents
                                                                                                             3. Agreements
ID Risk Statement             Probability  Scope        Impact                              Potential Owner  4. Procurement
                                  Low       Low   Quality Schedule Cost Potential Response  Project Manager
                                                                                            Project Manager       documentation
1  Project owner on the         Medium            Medium        Orient new project owner.                    5. Enterprise environmental
   client side is replaced.                                                                 Project Manager
                                  High                                                                            factors
2  Senior programmer is                             High  High  Find replacement                             6. Organizational process
   taken from the project.                        Medium        programmer.
                                                                                                                  assets
    External system A is not                                     Discuss with stakeholders
3 ready in time to                                        Low and make adjustments as                             Tools & Techniques:
                                                                                                              1. Expert judgment
    implement feature B.                                         agreed.                                      2. Data gathering
                                                                                                              3. Data analysis
                                                                                                              4. Interpersonal and

                                                                                                                    team skills
                                                                                                              5. Prompt lists
                                                                                                              6. Meetings

                                                                                                                     Outputs

                                                                                                             1. Risk register
                                                                                                             2. Risk report
                                                                                                             3. Project

                                                                                                                  documents
                                                                                                                  updates

                                                                                                                                            25
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis                                            Inputs:

    · The process of prioritizing individual project risks for    1. Project management
       further analysis or action by assessing their probability       plan
       of occurrence and impact as well as other
       characteristics.                                           2. Project documents
                                                                  3. Enterprise
    · The key benefit of this process is that it focuses efforts
       on high-priority risks. This process is performed               environmental factors
       throughout the project.                                    4. Organizational process

                                                                       assets

                                                                       Tools & Techniques:
                                                                   1. Expert judgment
                                                                   2. Data gathering
                                                                   3. Data analysis
                                                                   4. Interpersonal and

                                                                        team skills
                                                                   5. Risk categorization
                                                                   6. Data representation
                                                                   7. Meetings

                                                                               Outputs

                                                                    1. Project document
                                                                        updates
                                                                           · Assumption log
                                                                           · Issue log
                                                                           · Risk register
                                                                           · Risk report

                                                                                                      26
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis - Tools and Techniques              Inputs:

                Data Analysis                              1. Project management
                                                                plan

                                                           2. Project documents
                                                           3. Enterprise

                                                                environmental factors
                                                           4. Organizational process

                                                                assets

                                                               Tools & Techniques:

                                                           1. Expert judgment
                                                           2. Data gathering
                                                           3. Data analysis
                                                           4. Interpersonal and

                                                                team skills
                                                           5. Risk categorization
                                                           6. Data representation
                                                           7. Meetings

· A bubble chart displays three dimensions of data                    Outputs
· Each risk is plotted as a disk or bubble
· Three parameters are represented by x- axis, y-axis and  1. Project document
                                                               updates
     bubble size                                                  · Assumption log
· Detectability and proximity plotted on the x and y axes         · Issue log
                                                                  · Risk register
     and impact value represented by bubble size                  · Risk report

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 11-5, Page 408, and Figure 11-10, Page 426.  27
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis                                                  Inputs:
                                                                         1. Project management
    · The process of numerically analyzing the combined effect of
       identified individual project risks and other sources of               plan
       uncertainty on overall project objectives.                        2. Project documents
                                                                         3. Enterprise
    · The key benefit of this process is that it quantifies overall
       project risk exposure, and it can also provide additional              environmental
       quantitative risk information to support risk response planning.       factors
       This process is not required for every project, but wherever it   4. Organizational
       is used, it is performed throughout the project.                       process assets

                                                                              Tools & Techniques:
                                                                          1. Expert judgment
                                                                          2. Data gathering
                                                                          3. Interpersonal and

                                                                               team skills
                                                                          4. Representations of

                                                                               uncertainty
                                                                          5. Data analysis

                                                                                      Outputs

                                                                          1. Project document
                                                                                updates

                                                                                                   28
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

                                                           1. Project management
                                                                plan

                                                           2. Project documents

                                                           3. Enterprise
                                                                environmental
                                                                factors

                                                           4. Organizational
                                                                process assets

       Representations of              Data Analysis           Tools & Techniques:
                                                           1. Expert judgment
            Uncertainty                                    2. Data gathering
                                                           3. Interpersonal and
· Where the duration, cost, or
   resource requirement for a                                   team skills
   planned activity is uncertain, the                      4. Representations of
   range of possible values can be
   represented as probability                                   uncertainty
   distribution                                            5. Data analysis

· Most commonly used ones are                                          Outputs
   Triangular, normal, lognormal,
   beta, uniform or discrete                               1. Project document
   distributions                                                 updates

                                                                                        29
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

                                                           1. Project management
                                                                plan

                                                           2. Project documents

                                                           3. Enterprise
                                                                environmental
                                                                factors

                                                           4. Organizational
                                                                process assets

Data Analysis                                                  Tools & Techniques:

                                                           1. Expert judgment
                                                           2. Data gathering
                                                           3. Interpersonal and

                                                                team skills

                                                           4. Representations of
                                                                uncertainty

                                                           5. Data analysis

                                                                       Outputs

                                                           1. Project document
                                                                 updates

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30

Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 11-13, Page 433, Figure 11-14, Page 434, and , Figure 11-15, Page 435.
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Responses                                                           Inputs:
                                                                   1. Project management
   · The process of developing options, selecting strategies, and
      agreeing on actions to address overall project risk                plan
      exposure, as well as to treat individual project risks.      2. Project documents
                                                                   3. Enterprise
   · The key benefit of this process is that it identifies
      appropriate ways to address overall project risk and               environmental
      individual project risks. This process is performed                factors
      throughout the project.                                      4. Organizational
                                                                         process assets

                                                                        Tools & Techniques:

                                                                   1. Expert judgment
                                                                   2. Data gathering
                                                                   3. Interpersonal and team skills
                                                                   4. Strategies for threats
                                                                   5. Strategies for opportunities
                                                                   6. Contingent response strategies
                                                                   7. Strategies for overall project

                                                                       risk
                                                                   8. Data analysis
                                                                   9. Decision making

                                                                                Outputs

                                                                    1. Change requests
                                                                    2. Project

                                                                         management plan
                                                                         updates
                                                                    3. Project documents
                                                                         updates

                                                                                                        31
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Responses - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

  Strategies for Threats                    1. Project management
                                                  plan
       · Escalate
       · Avoid                              2. Project documents
       · Transfer                           3. Enterprise
       · Mitigate
       · Accept                                   environmental
                                                  factors
                                            4. Organizational
                                                  process assets

                                                 Tools & Techniques:

                                            1. Expert judgment
                                            2. Data gathering
                                            3. Interpersonal and team skills
                                            4. Strategies for threats
                                            5. Strategies for opportunities
                                            6. Contingent response strategies
                                            7. Strategies for overall project

                                                risk
                                            8. Data analysis
                                            9. Decision making

                                                        Outputs

                                            1. Change requests
                                            2. Project

                                                 management plan
                                                 updates
                                            3. Project documents
                                                 updates

                                                                                32
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Plan Risk Responses - Tools and Techniques             Inputs:

  Strategies for Opportunities              1. Project management
                                                  plan
         · Escalate
         · Exploit                          2. Project documents
         · Share                            3. Enterprise
         · Enhance
         · Accept                                 environmental
                                                  factors
                                            4. Organizational
                                                  process assets

                                                 Tools & Techniques:

                                            1. Expert judgment
                                            2. Data gathering
                                            3. Interpersonal and team skills
                                            4. Strategies for threats
                                            5. Strategies for opportunities
                                            6. Contingent response strategies
                                            7. Strategies for overall project

                                                risk
                                            8. Data analysis
                                            9. Decision making

                                                        Outputs

                                            1. Change requests
                                            2. Project

                                                 management plan
                                                 updates
                                            3. Project documents
                                                 updates

                                                                                33
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Implement Risk Responses                                                          Inputs:

   · The process of implementing agreed-upon risk response             1. Project
       plans.                                                               management plan

   · The key benefit of this process is that it ensures that agreed-   2. Project
       upon risk responses are executed as planned in order to              documents
       address overall project risk exposure, minimize individual
       project threats and maximize individual project opportunities.  3. Organizational
       The process is performed throughout the project.                     process assets

                                                                            Tools & Techniques:

                                                                       1. Expert judgment
                                                                       2. Interpersonal and

                                                                            team skills
                                                                       3. Project

                                                                            management
                                                                            information system

                                                                                    Outputs

                                                                       1. Change requests
                                                                       2. Project

                                                                            documents
                                                                            updates

                                                                                                              34
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

Monitor Risks                                                                      Inputs:
                                                                        1. Project
    · The process of monitoring the implementation of agreed-upon
       risk response plans, tracking identified risks, identifying and       management plan
       analyzing new risks, and evaluating risk process effectiveness   2. Project documents
       throughout the project.                                          3. Work performance

                                                                             data
                                                                        4. Work performance

                                                                             reports

                                                                             Tools & Techniques:

                                                                          1. Data analysis
                                                                          2. Audits
                                                                          3. Meetings

· The key benefit of this process is that it enables project decisions             Outputs
   to be based on current information about overall project risk
   exposure and individual project risks. This process is performed     1. Work performance
   throughout the project.                                                   information

                                                                        2. Change requests

                                                                        3. Project management
                                                                             plan updates

                                                                        4. Project documents
                                                                             updates

                                                                        5. Organizational process
                                                                             assets updates

                                                                                                                35
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                                                                   36
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              1. Which of the following are the most fundamental components of the communications model?
A. Sender, Receiver, Medium and interference
B. Sender, Receiver, Feedback
C. Sender, Message, Medium and noise
D. Sender, Receiver, Message

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              2. Which of the following is an accurate description of communications medium?
A. The email system used
B. The moderator of a SharePoint site
C. The air surrounding the sender and receiver
D. The average round trip delay of the message

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              3. Pull communication is best for what?
A. Distributing information to many, in an efficient way
B. Puts version control at greater risk
C. Is most appropriate for small amounts of information
D. Is most appropriate for low numbers of communication channels

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              4. Project reporting
A. Is a tool or technique within Manage Communications
B. Is an output of Manage Communications
C. Is an output of Monitor Communications
D. is a tool or technique within Monitor Communications

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              5. Six team members report to a project manager. How many channels of communication are there?
A. 24
B. 21
C. 15
D. 18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              6. You are managing a team of 6 members and once the project entered the next phase three more members are
              added and two of the current team members leave. How many new communication channels need to be added due to
              these changes.
A. 21
B. 7
C. 5
D. No changes are needed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              7. Outputs from Manage Communications might include what?
A. Change requests
B. Expert judgment
C. Meetings
D. Project document updates, including updates to Issue log

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   43
                   Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

              8. The process of ensuring timely and appropriate collection, creation, distribution, storage, retrieval, management,
              monitoring and the ultimate disposition of project information is
A. Plan Communication management
B. Manage Communications
C. Monitor Communications
D. Manage Stakeholder Engagement

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        9. Which of the following is an accurate description of a Probability and Impact Matrix?
A. It is a tool or technique used in Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis
B. it enables one to compare risks to see which one has largest EMV impact
C. It will help you to see which risks that have the highest probability of occurrence
D. It is the best tool to use to understand the cumulative probability curve of outcomes for a complex system

                                                                                                                                                                                                             45
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        10. The software development project requires an expensive Direct-Attached Storage Device for testing. This device is
        sensitive to vibration and the tenant one floor above runs a punch press from time to time that can create enough vibration
        to cause issues with the storage device. Which of the following is an example of risk mitigation?
A. Speak with the punch press operator, and ask him to please notify you when he is about to operate the punch press,
   so that you can shut down the DASD ahead of time
B. Mount the storage device in a special rack with elastic mounts to achieve some level of vibration isolation
C. Purchase a service contract for the storage device so that it will be replaced at no charge if it is damaged
D. Cross your fingers and hope you don't run into trouble

                                                                                                                                                                                                             46
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        11. Risks can be found where?
A. From focusing on cost estimates with wide ranges
B. From focusing on task durations with wide ranges
C. From identifying positive side-effects of a project that might not be immediately apparent
D. All of the above

                                                                                                                                                                                                             47
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        12. Task G has a range of estimated durations and costs. There is 80 percent likelihood the cost will be 2000 Swiss Francs. 15
        percent the cost will be 3500 Swiss Francs. And 5 percent chance the cost will come in at 8200 Swiss Francs. What is the EMV
        of the cost for Task G?
A. 4567 US Dollars
B. 2535 US Dollars
C. 4567 Swiss Francs
D. 2535 Swiss Francs

                                                                                                                                                                                                             48
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        13. SWOT is which of the following?
A. Silver Whisker Optimization Technique
B. A tool or technique used in identifying risks
C. A structured way of ranking risks
D. A graphic view of relative probabilities

                                                                                                                                                                                                             49
              Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

        14. As a project manager of an EPC company, you have identified all risks initially and arranged them according to the
        category. What should you do next ?
A. Plan Risk responses
B. Monitor the identified risks
C. Send RBS for experts' opinion
D. Find the probabilities and impacts of each risk

                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
Project Management -Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

=== ch03-project-management-part3.pdf ===
Engineering Project Management & Finance

                (UESTC 3031 & UESTCHN 3012)

       Project Management
                (Part 3)

                       Dr. Amir Parnianifard

                       Email: Amir.Parnianifard@glasgow.ac.uk
                                Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

· Part 1: Introduction, The Role of the Project Manager
· Part 2: Project Scope Management, Project Schedule Management
· Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management
· Part 4: Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
         Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Project Cost Management

                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                     Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Session Overview

    · Cost Management Processes
         o Plan Cost Management
         o Estimate Costs
         o Determine Budget
         o Control Costs

                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Project Cost Management

   · Project Cost Management includes the processes involved in planning, estimating, budgeting,
      financing, funding, managing, and controlling costs so that the project can be completed within
      the approved budget.

  Plan Cost  Estimate  Determine  Control Costs
Management     Costs     Budget

                                                                                                                      5
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Plan Cost Management                                                Inputs:

    · The Plan Cost Management process is the process of   1. Project charter
       defining how the project costs will be estimated,   2. Project management
       budgeted, managed, monitored, and controlled.
                                                                plan
                                                           3. Enterprise

                                                                Environmental Factors
                                                           4. Organizational Process

                                                                Assets

                                                               Tools & Techniques:

· The key benefit of this process is that it provides      1. Expert Judgment
  guidance and direction on how the project costs will be  2. Data analysis
  managed throughout the project.                          3. Meetings

                                                                   Outputs

                                                           1. Cost management plan

                                                                                       6
                 Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Plan Cost Management - Tools and Techniques                     Inputs:

Expert Judgment  Data analysis               Meetings  1. Project charter
                                                       2. Project management

                                                            plan
                                                       3. Enterprise

                                                            Environmental Factors
                                                       4. Organizational Process

                                                            Assets

                                                           Tools & Techniques:

Ways to acquire project resources such as                 1. Expert Judgment
   Making                                                 2. Data analysis
   Purchasing                                             3. Meetings
   Renting
   Leasing                                                         Outputs

                                                       1. Cost management plan

                                                                                                   7
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Plan Cost Management - Outputs                                                             Inputs:

     · The cost management plan describes how the project costs will be planned,  1. Project charter
        structured, and controlled.                                               2. Project management

                                                                                       plan
                                                                                  3. Enterprise

                                                                                       Environmental Factors
                                                                                  4. Organizational Process

                                                                                       Assets

Cost management plan                                                                  Tools & Techniques:
                                                                                     1. Expert Judgment
· Units of measure                                                                   2. Data analysis
· Level of precision                                                                 3. Meetings
· Level of accuracy
· Organizational procedures links                                                             Outputs
· Control thresholds
· Rules of performance measurement                                                1. Cost management plan
· Reporting formats
· Additional details

                                                                                                              8
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Estimate Costs                                                                         Inputs:

   · The process of developing an approximation of the cost of                1. Project management
      resources needed to complete project work.                                   plan

   · Various alternatives and trade-offs and risks should be considered       2. Project documents
      (Ex: make versus buy versus lease, resource sharing)                    3. Enterprise

   · May include labor, materials, equipment, services, facilities, IT, etc.       Environmental Factors
                                                                              4. Organizational Process
  · The key benefit of this process is that it determines the monetary
     resources required for the project.                                           Assets

                                                                                 Tools & Techniques:
                                                                              1. Expert judgment
                                                                              2. Analogous estimating
                                                                              3. Parametric estimating
                                                                              4. Bottom-up estimating
                                                                              5. Three-point estimating
                                                                              6. Data analysis
                                                                              7. Project management

                                                                                    information system
                                                                              8. Decision making

                                                                                         Outputs

                                                                              1. Cost estimates
                                                                              2. Basis of estimates
                                                                              3. Project

                                                                                   documents
                                                                                   updates

                                                                                                                9
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Estimate Costs - Tools and Techniques                                         Inputs:

· Analogous estimating: Use a rough estimate for the new project     1. Project management
    based on funding limits or past experience, then break it down        plan
    into smaller parts (Top-down estimating).
                                                                     2. Project documents
· Parametric estimating: Use formulas or unit rates (e.g., cost per  3. Enterprise
    square meter) to calculate costs.
                                                                          Environmental Factors
· Bottom-up estimating: Estimate each activity separately, then add  4. Organizational Process
    them up for the total cost.
                                                                          Assets
· Three-point estimating: Use optimistic, pessimistic, and most
    likely costs to calculate an average estimate.                      Tools & Techniques:
                                                                     1. Expert judgment
                                                                     2. Analogous estimating
                                                                     3. Parametric estimating
                                                                     4. Bottom-up estimating
                                                                     5. Three-point estimating
                                                                     6. Data analysis
                                                                     7. Project management

                                                                           information system
                                                                     8. Decision making

                                                                                Outputs

                                                                     1. Cost estimates
                                                                     2. Basis of estimates
                                                                     3. Project

                                                                          documents
                                                                          updates

                                                                                                       10
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Accuracy of Estimates

Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM)            Definitive Estimate
                                          · Ranges from -5% to 10%
· Ranges from -25% to 75%                 · Used late in planning process (bottom-up)
· Used in initiating process (analogous)

If a project has a $250,000 USD estimate, assuming it didn't change as
it went through the estimating process, the rough order of magnitude
tolerance is $187,500 to $437,500. The definitive or control estimate
tolerance is $237,500 to $275,000.

· Aligning with the PMBOK® Guide, in the Initiating process
   group a tolerance range for a Rough Order of Magnitude
   (ROM) estimate could be -25% to + 75% and as the project
   gains momentum into the Executing process group, the
   tolerance could narrow to -5% to +10%.

                                                                                                                                                                                              11
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Determine Budget                                                        Inputs:
                                                                         Inputs:
   · The process of aggregating the estimated costs of        1. Project management plan
      individual activities or work packages to establish an  2. Project documents
      authorized cost baseline.                               3. Business documents
                                                              4. Agreements
   · The key benefit of this process is that it determines    5. Enterprise Environmental
      the cost baseline against which project performance           Factors
      can be monitored and controlled.                        6. Organizational Process
                                                                    Assets

                                                                  Tools & Techniques:
                                                              1. Expert judgment
                                                              2. Cost aggregation
                                                              3. Data analysis
                                                              4. Historical information

                                                                    review
                                                              5. Funding limit

                                                                    reconciliation
                                                              6. Financing

                                                                          Outputs

                                                                 1. Cost baseline
                                                                 2. Project funding

                                                                       requirements
                                                                 3. Project documents

                                                                       updates

                                                                                                  22
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Determine Budget - Outputs              Inputs:

                                         Inputs:
                              1. Project management plan
                              2. Project documents
                              3. Business documents
                              4. Agreements
                              5. Enterprise Environmental

                                    Factors
                              6. Organizational Process

                                    Assets

Project Budget Component         Tools & Techniques:

                              1. Expert judgment
                              2. Cost aggregation
                              3. Data analysis
                              4. Historical information

                                   review
                              5. Funding limit

                                   reconciliation
                              6. Financing

Cost Baseline, Expenditures,          Outputs
and Funding Requirements
                              1. Cost baseline
                              2. Project funding

                                   requirements
                              3. Project documents

                                   updates

                                                               13
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Costs                                                               Inputs:

    · The process of monitoring the status of the project to     1. Project management plan
       update the project costs and manage changes to the        2. Project documents
       cost baseline.                                            3. Project funding

    · The key benefit of this process is that the cost baseline       requirements
       is maintained throughout the project.                     4. Work performance data
                                                                 5. Organizational Process

                                                                      Assets

                                                                       Tools & Techniques:

                                                                   1. Expert judgment
                                                                   2. Data analysis
                                                                   3. To-complete

                                                                         performance index
                                                                         (TCPI)
                                                                   4. Project management
                                                                         information system

                                                                              Outputs
                                                                    1. Work performance

                                                                         information
                                                                    2. Cost forecasts
                                                                    3. Change requests
                                                                    4. Project management

                                                                         plan updates
                                                                    5. Project documents

                                                                         updates

                                                                                                        31
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Costs - Tools and Techniques                                                                                                                                                               Inputs:
Data analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                        1. Project management plan
Earned value analysis (EVA):                                                                                                                                                            2. Project documents
· EVM develops and monitors three key                                                                                                                                                   3. Project funding

  dimensions:                                                                                                                                                                                requirements
                                                                                                                                                                                        4. Work performance data
      Planned Value (PV): Authorized budget                                                                                                                                             5. Organizational Process
         assigned to scheduled work.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Assets
      Earned Value (EV): EV measures how
         much work has been completed in                                                                                                                                                      Tools & Techniques:
         terms of the budget authorized for that
         work.                                                                                                                                                                            1. Expert judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Data analysis
      Actual Cost (AC): AC the real amount                                                                                                                                                3. To-complete
         of money spent on the work done.
                                                                                                                                                                                                performance index
   Project Management Institute, A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, (PMBOK® Guide) ­ Sixth edition, Project Management Institute, Inc., 2017, Figure 7-12, Page 264.          (TCPI)
                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Project management
                                                                                                                                                                                                information system

                                                                                                                                                                                                     Outputs
                                                                                                                                                                                           1. Work performance

                                                                                                                                                                                                information
                                                                                                                                                                                           2. Cost forecasts
                                                                                                                                                                                           3. Change requests
                                                                                                                                                                                           4. Project management

                                                                                                                                                                                                plan updates
                                                                                                                                                                                           5. Project documents

                                                                                                                                                                                                updates

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            36
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Costs - Tools and Techniques                                                                        Inputs:
Data analysis
                                                                                                 1. Project management plan
Example (EVA):                                                                                   2. Project documents
                                                                                                 3. Project funding
· Total Project Budget (BAC) = $1,000
· Planned Completion by Now: 50% of the work was planned to be completed by this point in time.       requirements
· Actual Completion by Now: 40% of the work has actually been completed.                         4. Work performance data
· Actual Money Spent = $550                                                                      5. Organizational Process

                Planned Value (PV) = 50% of $1,000 = $500                                             Assets
                (By now, the plan was to complete $500 worth of work.)
                                                                                                       Tools & Techniques:
                Earned Value (EV) = 40% of $1,000 = $400
                (The work actually done so far is worth $400.)                                     1. Expert judgment
                                                                                                   2. Data analysis
                Actual Cost (AC) = $550                                                            3. To-complete
                (You spent $550 to complete $400 worth of work.)
                                                                                                         performance index
                                                                                                         (TCPI)
                                                                                                   4. Project management
                                                                                                         information system

                                                                                                              Outputs
                                                                                                    1. Work performance

                                                                                                         information
                                                                                                    2. Cost forecasts
                                                                                                    3. Change requests
                                                                                                    4. Project management

                                                                                                         plan updates
                                                                                                    5. Project documents

                                                                                                         updates

                                                                                                                                     36
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Costs - Tools and Techniques                                                                          Inputs:
Data analysis
                                                                                                   1. Project management plan
   Variance analysis:                                                                              2. Project documents
   · Examples of variance analysis:                                                                3. Project funding

         Schedule Variance (SV): The difference                                                         requirements
           between the earned value and the                                                        4. Work performance data
           planned value. Equation: SV=EV-PV                                                       5. Organizational Process

         Cost Variance (CV): The difference                                                             Assets
           between the earned value and the actual
           cost. Equation: CV=EV-AC                                                                      Tools & Techniques:

      The EVA Schedule Variance (SV) is a useful metric in that it can indicate when a project is    1. Expert judgment
      falling behind or is ahead of its baseline schedule. The Cost Variance (CV) is particularly    2. Data analysis
      critical because it indicates the relationship of physical performance to the costs spent.     3. To-complete
      Negative CV is often difficult for the project to recover.
                                                                                                           performance index
                                                                                                           (TCPI)
                                                                                                     4. Project management
                                                                                                           information system

                                                                                                                Outputs
                                                                                                      1. Work performance

                                                                                                           information
                                                                                                      2. Cost forecasts
                                                                                                      3. Change requests
                                                                                                      4. Project management

                                                                                                           plan updates
                                                                                                      5. Project documents

                                                                                                           updates

                                                                                                                                       17
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Costs - Tools and Techniques                                                   Inputs:
Data analysis
                                                                            1. Project management plan
  Schedule Performance Index (SPI): Ratio of earned                         2. Project documents
    value to planned value. Equation: SPI=EV/PV                             3. Project funding

  Cost Performance Index (CPI): Ratio of earned value                            requirements
    to actual cost. Equation: CPI = EV/AC                                   4. Work performance data
                                                                            5. Organizational Process
  CPI is greater than 1 - this is good - project is under budget.
  SPI is less than 1 - this is bad - project is behind schedule.                 Assets

                                                                                  Tools & Techniques:

                                                                              1. Expert judgment
                                                                              2. Data analysis
                                                                              3. To-complete

                                                                                    performance index
                                                                                    (TCPI)
                                                                              4. Project management
                                                                                    information system

                    Name                                           Formula
Cost Variance (CV)
Schedule Variance (SV)            EV ­ AC                                             Outputs
Cost Performance Index (CPI)      EV ­ PV
Schedule Performance Index (SPI)  EV / AC                                   1. Work performance
                                  EV / PV                                        information

                                                                            2. Cost forecasts
                                                                            3. Change requests
                                                                            4. Project management

                                                                                 plan updates
                                                                            5. Project documents

                                                                                 updates

                                                                                                             18
     Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Earned Value Measurement Example

You have been assigned to a project whose activities along with estimates shown below. The project progressed for 90
days so far, and you have to assess and report the project health using the Earned value analysis. Total Value of the
project is $100 Million and so far, 26% of the work has been accomplished costing $30.5 Million.

WBS                               Est. Duration Est. Cost

1.1 Work Category 1               10 days  $13M
  1.1.1 Activity A                37 days  $ 4M
  1.1.2 Activity C
                                  16 days  $ 6M
1.2 Work Category 2               15 days  $ 3M
  1.2.1 Activity D                12 days  $ 3M
  1.2.2 Activity B
  1.2.3 Activity E                30       $11M 90 Days

1.3 Work Category 3               days
  1.3.1 Activity I
                                  17       $21M
  1.3.2 Activity H

                                  days

                                                                                                                                 19
                          Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Earned Value Measurement Example

0                         3        6  9  1 year

0                         PV=$29M                                                      Budget at Completion
                                                                                            (BAC)=$100M
Given:
Value of Project = $100M           1. Variance
PV = $29M (29%)                          · CV = EV ­ AC = 26 ­ 30.5 = -$4.5M
EV = $26M (26% of BAC)
AC = $30.5 M                             · SV = EV ­ PV = 26 ­ 29 = -$3M

                                   2. Project Performance Index
                                         · CPI = EV/AC = 26/30.5 = 0.85 (15% over budget)

                                         · SPI = EV/PV = 26/29 = 0.90 (10% behind schedule)

   Regarding the obtained EVM results, what do you
   think about the performance of this project so far?

                                                                                                                                                                                     20
         Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Project Resource Management

                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                     Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Session Overview

    · Resource Management
         o Plan Resource Management
         o Estimate Activity Resources
         o Acquire Resources
         o Develop Team
         o Manage Team
         o Control Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
                                   Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Key concepts

   · Resources are a risk if not well managed & controlled
       (timeliness, quality, inventory).

  · The project manager should be aware of different
      aspects that influence the team, such as:

      o Team environment,
      o Geographical locations of team members,
      o Communications among stakeholders,
      o Internal and external politics,
      o Cultural issues and organizational uniqueness, and
      o Other factors that may alter project performance.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                     Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Project Resource Management

    Project Resource Management includes the processes to identify, acquire and manage resources
    required for successful project completion

     Plan   Estimate    Acquire   Develop  Manage   Control
  Resource  Activity   Resources   Team     Team   Resources
Management  Resources

These processes help ensure the availability of right resources at the right time and place to the project
manager and the project team.

                                                                                                                       24
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Plan Resource Management                                                           Inputs:
                                                                         1. Project charter
   · Plan Resource Management is the process of defying how to           2. Project management
      estimate, acquire, manage, and use physical and human
      project resources.                                                      plan
                                                                         3. Project documents
  · The key benefit of this process is that it establishes the approach  4. Enterprise
     and level of management effort needed for managing project
     resources based on the type and complexity of the project.               environmental factors
                                                                         5. Organizational process

                                                                              assets

                                                                             Tools & Techniques:

                                                                            1. Expert judgment
                                                                            2. Data representation
                                                                            3. Organizationa

                                                                                 l theory
                                                                            4. Meetings

                                                                                     Outputs

                                                                          1. Resource
                                                                                management plan

                                                                          2. Team charter
                                                                          3. Project documents

                                                                                updates

                                                                                                             25
                                     Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Data representation

          Hierarchical charts
                Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)
                Organizational Breakdown Structure (OBS)
                Resource Breakdown Structure (RBS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Data representation                                                                                                                 Text-oriented formats

   Responsibility Assignment Matrix (RAM)

       · RAM shows the project resources assigned to each work package.
       · Ensures that there is only one person accountable for any one task to avoid confusion of

           responsibility.
       · Example of a RAM is a RACI (responsible, accountable, consult, and inform) chart

                                                                                      · Responsible ­ A person to whom the work is
                                                                                          assigned

                                                                                      · Accountable ­ A person who can take final
                                                                                          decision or who has ultimate ownership

                                                                                      · Consulted ­ A person to be consulted
                                                                                          before taking a decision

                                                                                      · Informed ­ A person to whom the decision
                                                                                          taken is to be informed

                                                                                                                                                           27
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Estimate Activity Resources                                                        Inputs

   · Estimate Activity Resources is the process of estimating team     1. Project management
      resources and the type and quantities of material,                    plan
      equipment, and supplies necessary to perform project work.
                                                                       2. Project documents
    · The key benefit of this process is that it identifies the type,  3. Enterprise
       quantity, and characteristics of resources required to
       complete the project.                                                environmental factors
                                                                       4. Organizational process

                                                                            assets

                                                                           Tools & Techniques:
                                                                        1. Expert judgment
                                                                        2. Bottom-up estimating
                                                                        3. Analogous estimating
                                                                        4. Parametric estimating
                                                                        5. Data analysis
                                                                        6. Project management

                                                                             information system
                                                                        7. Meetings

                                                                                   Outputs

                                                                       1. Resource requirements
                                                                       2. Basis of estimates
                                                                       3. Resource breakdown

                                                                             structure
                                                                       4. Project documents

                                                                             updates

                                                                                                           28
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Acquire Resources                                                               Inputs:
                                                                      1. Project management
    · Acquire Resources is the process of obtaining team
       members, facilities, equipment, materials, supplies, and            plan
       other resources necessary to complete project work.            2. Project documents
                                                                      3. Enterprise
    · The key benefit of this process is that it outlines and guides
       the selection of resources and assign them to their                 Environmental
       respective activities.                                              Factors
                                                                      4. Organizational
                                                                           Process Assets

                                                                          Tools & Techniques:

                                                                         1. Decision making
                                                                         2. Interpersonal and

                                                                               team skills
                                                                         3. Pre-assignment
                                                                         4. Virtual teams

                                                                      Outputs

                                                                      1. Physical resource assignments

                                                                      2. Project team assignments

                                                                      3. Resource calendars

                                                                      4. Change requests

                                                                      5. Project management plan

                                                                      updates

                                                                      6. Project documents updates

                                                                      7. Enterprise environmental

                                                                      factors updates

                                                                      8. Organizational process assets

                                                                      updates                           29
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Develop Team                                                                  Inputs:

  · Develop Team is the process of improving competencies,           1. Project management plan
     team member interaction, and the overall team                   2. Project documents
     environment to enhance project performance.                     3. Enterprise

  · The key benefit of this process is that it results in improved         environmental
     teamwork, enhanced interpersonal skills and competencies,             factors
     motivated employees, reduced attrition, and improved            4. Organizational
     overall project performance.                                          process assets

                                                                        Tools & Techniques:

                                                                     1. Colocation
                                                                     2. Virtual teams
                                                                     3. Communication technology
                                                                     4. Interpersonal and team

                                                                          skills
                                                                     5. Recognition and rewards
                                                                     6. Training
                                                                     7. Individual and team

                                                                          assessments
                                                                     8. Meetings

                                                                                Outputs

                                                                    1. Team performance
                                                                          assessments

                                                                    2. Change requests
                                                                    3. Project management plan

                                                                          updates
                                                                    4. Project documents updates
                                                                    5. Enterprise environmental

                                                                          factors updates
                                                                    6. Organizational process assets

                                                                          updates

                                                                                                         30
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Team-Building Activities

· The objective of team-building                                                                                  (Adjourning)
     activities is to help individual team                                          · Project or group ends
     members work together                                                          · Team celebrates achievements or reflects on experience
     effectively.                                                                   · Members move on to new tasks or teams

· These are particularly valuable                                         (Performing)
     when team members operate               · Team is high-functioning and productive
     from remote locations.                  · Members support each other and work independently
                                             · Leader steps back, team is mostly self-directed

                                                                          (Norming)
                                             · Team starts to work better together
                                             · Roles become clearer
                                             · Shared goals and trust develop
                                             · Team establishes its own norms and collaboration style

                             (Storming)
· Conflicts or competition may arise
· People express different opinions, challenge authority or ideas
· Critical phase where many teams fail or succeed
· Needs good communication and conflict resolution

                           (Forming)                               Stages of "Tuckman's Model" in Team Building
· Team is just coming together
· Members are polite, uncertain about roles                                                                                                                            31
· They look to the leader for guidance
· Focus is on getting to know each other
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Manage Team                                                             Inputs:

    · Manage Team is the process of tracking team member       1. Project management plan
       performance, providing feedback, resolving issues, and  2. Project documents
       managing team changes to optimize project               3. Work performance
       performance.
                                                                     reports
                                                               4. Team performance

                                                                     assessments
                                                               5. Enterprise environmental

                                                                     factors
                                                               6. Organizational process

                                                                     assets

                                                                   Tools & Techniques:

                                                                1. Interpersonal and
                                                                      team skills

                                                                2. Project
                                                                      management
                                                                      information system

· The key benefit of this process is that it influences team              Outputs
  behavior, manages conflict, resolves issues.
                                                               1. Change requests
                                                               2. Project management

                                                                    plan updates
                                                               3. Project documents

                                                                    updates
                                                               4. Enterprise

                                                                    environmental factors
                                                                    updates

                                                                                                    32
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

  Steps for Handling Conflict in Project Management:

       1. Recognize the Conflict: Pay attention to signs of conflict, such as tension,
           disagreements, or poor communication.

       2. Assess the Situation: Determine whether the conflict is affecting the project or if it
           can be resolved quickly.

       3. Choose a Strategy: Select one of the conflict management strategies (Avoiding,
           Accommodating, Competing, Compromising, or Collaborating).

       4. Communicate: Encourage open and honest communication to ensure everyone
           understands each other's concerns and viewpoints.

       5. Seek a Solution: Work with the team to find the best solution. Make sure it's fair
           and works for everyone involved.

       6. Follow-Up: After resolving the conflict, check in to ensure that everyone is satisfied
           with the solution and that no new issues arise.
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

Techniques for resolving Conflict

 Avoiding

     · What It Is: The conflict is ignored or postponed. No
         action is taken, and people move on without
         resolving the issue.

     · When to Use: Use this when the conflict is minor or
         when you don't have enough time or energy to deal
         with it.

     · Example: If a team member disagrees with a small
         part of a plan that doesn't affect the overall project,
         it might be best to avoid engaging in the conflict.
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

Techniques for resolving Conflict

   Accommodating

      · What It Is: One person gives in to the other's desires
         to maintain peace and harmony.

      · When to Use: Use this when the issue is not
         important to you, and you want to preserve a good
         relationship.

      · Example: A team member insists on a different
         method for solving a problem, and you agree to their
         method just to keep things smooth, even if you
         prefer a different approach.
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

Techniques for resolving Conflict

   Compromising

      · What It Is: Both parties give up something in order
         to reach a middle ground.

      · When to Use: Use this when both sides have valid
         points and need to find a solution that everyone can
         live with.

      · Example: If two people argue over the project
         timeline, you could decide to extend the deadline a
         little to make both sides happy.
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

Techniques for resolving Conflict

  Competing

      · What It Is: One person asserts their viewpoint and
         pushes for their solution, often at the expense of
         others.

      · When to Use: Use this when there is a need for a
         quick decision and there's no room for compromise.

      · Example: During a critical project decision, you
         might need to make the final call quickly, even if not
         everyone agrees.
                                    Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Conflict Management

Techniques for resolving Conflict

 Collaborating (Problem Solving)

      · What It Is: Both parties work together to find a
         solution that fully satisfies everyone involved.

      · When to Use: Use this when the conflict is
         important, and you want a long-term, mutually
         beneficial solution.

      · Example: If two team members have different
         ideas about a project approach, you could set up a
         meeting to discuss both ideas and combine the best
         parts of each to create a better solution.
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

Control Resources                                                                Inputs:

 · Control Resources is the process of ensuring that the physical     1. Project management
     resources assigned and allocated to the project are available       plan
     as planned, as well as monitoring the planned versus actual
     use of resources, and performing corrective action as            2. Project documents
     necessary.                                                       3. Work performance data
                                                                      4. Agreements
                                                                      5. Organizational process

                                                                         assets

                                                                           Tools & Techniques:

                                                                         1. Data analysis
                                                                         2. Problem solving
                                                                         3. Interpersonal and

                                                                             team skills
                                                                         4. Project management

                                                                             information system

· The key benefit of this process is ensuring that the assigned                 Outputs
   physical resources are available to the project at the right time
   and in the right place and are released when no longer             1. Work performance
   needed.                                                                 information

                                                                      2. Change requests
                                                                      3. Project management

                                                                           plan updates
                                                                      4. Project documents

                                                                           updates

                                                                                                          39
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

                                                                                                                                                                             40
                       Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

               1. Interoperable Systems Corp is estimating costs for a new project they recently won. Funding limits will be set based
               on these cost estimates, and if they're too low, it could cause serious delays and adverse management attention. What
               type of estimating will be most appropriate and why?
A. Analogous estimating because this will capture previous project experience.
B. Parametric estimating because nearly 20 percent of project cost is fencing, which has a predictable cost per
  linear foot.
C. Bottom-up estimating, because this will be most thorough.
D. Top-down estimating because the estimates need to be aligned with anticipated funding limits.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                        Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

              2. Which of the following is an accurate description of the Cost baseline?

A. The cost baseline is compared against plan to calculate cost variances and CPI
B. The cost baseline is an output of Determine Budget, is subject to formal change control and does not include any management

   reserves
C. The Cost baseline is an input to Determine Budget
D. The Cost baseline is an output of Determine Budget, is subject to change control and includes contingency and management

   reserves

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42
                       Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

             3. Which of the following is the correct list of processes in the Cost Management Knowledge Area?
A. Estimate Costs; Create Budget; Control Costs
B. Plan Cost Management, Estimate Costs, Determine Budget, Minimize Costs
C. Plan Cost Management, Estimate Costs, Secure Funding, Minimize Costs
D. Plan Cost Management, Estimate Costs, Determine Budget, Control Costs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43
                       Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

             4. The server refresh project has incurred costs of $675,000, while the work completed was expected to cost $525,000.
             What is the CPI?
A. 0.778
B. 1.29
C. 0.286
D. $150,000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44
                       Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

             5. Silver Springs Financial Services is moving its servers to close a data center and save money after a trading problem.
             The project manager reports that the CPI is 1.1 and the SPI is 0.9. What does this tell us about the project's cost and
             schedule?
A. Trading controls need to be tightened
B. The project is over budget
C. The project is ahead of schedule
D. The project is under budget and behind schedule

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                  Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

        6. At which stage does a project have maximum cost?
A. Initial stage
B. Middle stage
C. Final stage
D. Cost is same at all stages

                                                                                                                                                                                                          46
                  Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

         7. You are the project manager for a construction company. When you are checking the project status you observed that
         the project is under budget and behind schedule. Which of the following tool and technique do you use to bring the project
         to the planned stage ?
A. Earned value management
B. Reserve analysis
C. Variance analysis
D. Crashing

                                                                                                                                                                                                           47
                       Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

              8. Which of the following are tools and techniques used in Acquire Resources?
A. Advertise, offer, and hire
B. Beg, borrow and steal
C. Pre-assignment, Decision making, Collocation
D. Pre-assignment, Decision making, Virtual Teams

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 48
                         Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

                9. You are assigned to a project which is at execution stage, since the previous project manager has left the
                organization. You are trying to trace out who is responsible for executing the tasks. Which plan / document provide this
                information ?
A. Resource Management Plan
B. Resource histograms
C. Responsibility assignment matrix
D. Talk to the team and find out who is responsible for executing each task

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    49
                               Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

In the Next Lesson:

               Project Management: Part 4

      · Project Communications Management
      · Project Risk Management

                                                                                                                                           5050
Project Management -Part 3: Project Cost Management, Project Resource Management

=== sample-exam-questions.pdf ===
SAMPLE EXAM QUESTIONS

ENGINEERING PROJECT MANAGEMENT & FINANCE
(UESTC 3031& UESTCHN3012)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         SAMPLE SET 1

Section A: Multiple Choice Questions

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options for each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

         (1.1) Which item below is correct regarding Design for Manufacturing (DFM): [2]
                  A. As a general rule, DFM can't be started at the initial stages of product design
                      before fabrication.
                  B. DFM has advantages, including lower production costs and higher product
                      quality; however, it may increase the time required to bring the product to
                      market.
                  C. The DFM may impose higher manufacturing costs, but instead, it can
                      benefit from higher customer satisfaction because of improved product
                      quality.
                  D. DFM is a design method to reduce the complexity of manufacturing
                      operations and the overall cost of production including the cost of raw
                      materials.
                  E. While manufacturers were facing strong competition from other
                      manufacturers (rivals), at the time, they were under pressure to increase
                      production efficiency while increasing costs of production.

         (1.2) There is a variety of actionable sustainable design principles that can be
                  implemented to create better designs. Some of them are below except: [2]
                  A. Dematerialization.
                  B. Migration to product-service systems.
                  C. Limit or eliminate long-distance outsourcing.
                  D. Design for a shorter period of usage.
                  E. Invest in simulation.

                                                 Page 1 of 54
(1.3) Which of the following 7QC tools can best be used to logically organize

possible factors related to a specific problem by graphically displaying them in

increasing detail and suggesting causal relationships among theories?  [2]

A. Cause-Effect Diagram.

B. Check Sheet.

C. Pareto Chart.

D. Control Charts.

E. Scatter Diagram.

(1.4) Which model below is best used as a roadmap for Six Sigma to improve the

quality of results produced by company processes?                      [2]

A. Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control (DMAIC)

B. Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA)

C. Total Quality Management (TQM)

D. Lean Manufacturing

E. Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA)

(1.5) Project A has an NPV of $1.2 million; Project B has a BCR of 1.035; Project C

has an IRR of -0.03 percent. Based on the information given, which project

appears to be most attractive?                                         [2]

A. Project A is the most attractive.

B. Project B is the most attractive.

C. Project C is the most attractive.

D. All three projects A, B, and C are equally attractive to execute.

E. It is uncertain which project is the most attractive to execute based on the
    provided information.

(1.6) You are a project manager for an electrical manufacturing company involved

in developing innovative components for renewable energy solutions. You have

noticed that one of your team members is lacking knowledge in electronic

component design. The same was communicated to him, and you tried sending

him for training. However, the team member started arguing that he is an expert

in electronic component design. Which of the following best describes this

situation?                                                             [2]

A. The team member is consciously competent.

B. The team member is unconsciously competent.

C. The team member is consciously incompetent.

                       Page 2 of 54
D. The team member is unconsciously incompetent.

E. The team member is aware of his/her skill, so there is no necessity for
    training.

(1.7) In a Profit and Loss (Income) statement, Earnings before Interest, Tax,

Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA) is equal to:  [2]

A ­ Total Sales minus Cost of Sales

B ­ Total Expenses minus Net Profit

C ­ Total Sales minus (Salaries + Rent)

D ­ Gross Profit minus all company operating expenses (salaries and rent etc.)

E ­ Full production costs minus Net Profit

(1.8) You are an engineer working on a project that depends on a new type of battery

technology for success. During the development of the product, a report appears

in a respected science publication that there may be health issues associated

with the new battery technology if it leaks but they do not yet have reliable data.

You are under pressure from your boss to complete your project, what do you

do?                                                   [2]

A ­ Tell your boss there is no reliable data so you should complete the project
against the original plan. It is not your fault if there is no reliable data.

B ­ Advise your boss that although there is no reliable data, you should adopt
a precautionary approach and install further protection (costing more money)
around the battery along with a monitoring system to detect leaks.

C ­ Stop work on the project and advise your boss that if he does not cancel the
project you will report him to the health authorities.

D ­ Advise your boss if you cannot use the battery technology then they should
cancel the project and the product that uses it as it will not be competitive in the
market.

E ­ Approach the author of the science publication and offer to pay for a holiday
for them and their family if the author writes another article stating that the first
article was wrong.

(1.9) If a company has an organizational structure shown below, it is called: [2]

     Page 3 of 54
A ­ A Team-Based Structure
B ­ A Matrix Structure
C ­ A Divisional Structure
D ­ A Simple Startup Structure
E ­ A Military Command Structure

(1.10) You have fifteen members in your engineering project team. You have called

for a project status meeting without prior notice. During the meeting, there were

too many side conversations and arguments. As a result, the team achieved very

little in the meeting. To achieve orderliness in the meeting next time, you

should:                                                           [2]

A ­ Decrease the number of people in the meeting

B ­ Publish a meeting agenda

C ­ Ensure that you control the channels of communication

D ­ Give incentives to team members for conforming to desired meeting norms

E ­ Invite a member from the higher management/executive team

(1.11) A part of the cash flow with 30-days net payment terms for cash-in and cash-

out is given in Table Q1 (1.11) below. Determine the cumulative cash towards

the end of each month (M). The currency utilized for transactions in this cash

flow is RMB.                                                      [2]

                Table Q1 (1.11): Cash-Flow Table

                M0 M1 M2 M3 M4 M5

Sales Bookings  10            12  8               20 100       0

Shipments       0             10  12              8        20  100

Components Order 5            6   4               10       50  0

                Page 4 of 54
A ­ M0 = 0 RMB; M1 = -5 RMB; M2 = -1 RMB; M3 = +7 RMB; M4 = +5
RMB; M5 = -25 RMB

B ­ M0 = -5 RMB; M1 = -6 RMB; M2 = -4 RMB; M3 = -10 RMB; M4 = -50
RMB; M5 = 0 RMB

C ­ M0 = 0 RMB; M1 = -10 RMB; M2 = -12 RMB; M3 = -8 RMB; M4 = -20
RMB; M5 = -100 RMB

D ­ M0 = -5 RMB; M1 = -16 RMB; M2 = -16 RMB; M3 = -18 RMB; M4 = -
70 RMB; M5 = -100 RMB

E ­ M0 = 0 RMB; M1 = -5 RMB; M2 = +4 RMB; M3 = +8 RMB; M4 = -2
RMB; M5 = -30 RMB

(1.12) Based on Q1 (1.11) above, how do you classify the trading nature for such a

type of cash-flow statements?    [2]

A ­ Well-balanced trading

B ­ Under trading

C ­ Over trading

D ­ No trading

E ­ Well-established trading

                   Page 5 of 54
Section B: Long Questions

Q2 [25 marks]

(a) A company is designing a new household appliance and is considering two possible
    designs for one of its components.

Design A consists of five separate parts that need to be assembled.

Design B integrates these parts into a single molded component.

(i) Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each design from a Design for

Manufacturing (DFM) perspective.                                         [6]

(ii) Design A consists of five separate parts that need to be assembled, and one of

these parts can be reused in other devices. Design B integrates all parts into a

single molded component, making it smaller in size. In terms of actionable

sustainable design principles, compare the two designs.                  [4]

(iii) The 4Rs, in particular, are a very effective tool in building a circular economy.

They include four principles that can be applied by almost every individual and

have an exponential effect. Distinguish the principles of the 4Rs that Design A

and Design B primarily apply to promote the circular economy.            [3]

(b) The night shift operator recorded twenty current (mA) samples during the electronic

circuit testing over time in electronics manufacturing, as shown in Table Q2(b). As a

technician, you are expected to evaluate and analyze the process over the last 20 time

units to determine whether the process is under control (stable) or not. Discuss your

findings by utilizing a control chart (considering 2 * Sigma). You are required to create

a plot to demonstrate your explanation with a visual representation that includes the

central line, upper control limit (UCL), and lower control limit (LCL).  [7]

               #Sample     Current (mA)  #Sample  Current (mA)

                   1             510        11          505
                   2             516        12          511
                   3             500        13          500
                   4             495        14          498
                   5             505        15          501
                   6             500        16          500
                   7             510        17          490
                   8             505        18          505
                   9             500        19          507
                  10             499        20          500

                           Table Q2(b)

(c) Assume that the manufacturer's target for the process in (b) is 500 mA, with a tolerance

of ±5 mA. To assess the manufacturing process's capability to meet specifications,

evaluate both process capability indices for this manufacturing operation. Discuss your

findings.                                                                [5]

Q3 [25 marks]

                           Page 6 of 54
(a) Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to
    project activities to meet the project requirements. Answer the following questions.

(i) John is overseeing the development of a new electronic device prototype.

After collaborating with the team, they determine the most likely project

duration of 10 months. In the best-case scenario, efficient collaboration with

a specialized component supplier could reduce the duration by 2 months.

However, a delay in obtaining critical components might extend the project

by 3 months. Using the three-point estimating technique, calculate the

expected project duration using both Triangular Distribution and Beta

Distribution. Also, determine the standard deviation for each of these

approaches.                                              [3]

(ii) You are leading a project team consisting of 11 members. As the project

transitions into the next phase, three new members join the team while two

existing members depart. Based on these changes, determine the number of

additional communication channels that will be created.  [2]

(iii) Assume an electronic product engineer has collected 10 observations (test

results) for a specific product's quality characteristic, which is nominally the

best at a target value of 8.5. The engineer uses the Taguchi loss function to

evaluate the quality, where the constant k=1. Given the data provided in

Table Q3(a), compute the Taguchi loss function for each observation and

determine the total loss.                                [3]

                                                     Table Q3(a)

         (iv) You have been assigned as the project manager for the development of a
                  basic embedded system for controlling a temperature sensor in a smart home
                  application. The major phases of the project are planning, design, and
                  testing. The WBS is decomposed down through these phases, where each
                  phase is broken down into two additional activities at Level 2. Based on
                  this, plot the WBS for the project, showing all three levels clearly. [4]

(b) Project schedule management includes the processes required to manage the timely
    completion of the project. One of the common techniques used is CPM (critical path
    method). The critical path is the sequence of activities that represents the longest path
    through a project, which determines the minimum possible project duration. Consider
    a project (assume date 0 for project starting) with the network diagram shown in Figure
    Q3(b) and answer the following questions.

                                            Page 7 of 54
                 Figure Q3(b)

(i) Perform the forward pass analysis through the schedule network and

compute Early Start and Early Finish dates for all activities.  [5]

(ii) Perform the backward pass analysis through the schedule network and

compute Late Start and Late Finish dates for all activities.    [5]

(iii) Calculate the total float (slack) for all activities.     [2]

(iv) Define the Critical Path (sequence of activities that are located on the

critical path).                                                 [1]

Q4 [26 marks]

    VRtuoso is a company that produces virtual reality (VR) headsets for businesses and
    academic (teaching and research) purposes wherein each headset comprises of two
    specialized lenses. The company manufactures 0.6 Million (M) headsets annually. The
    lenses for these headsets are provided by an external supplier to VRtuoso for 675 RMB
    each. Moreover, the company has some vacant production facilities that adds to the total
    annual costs with a Fixed Overhead Cost of 39 M RMB. Currently, the vacant production
    facilities are rented out for 2 M RMB per year but the company has recently been informed
    during a TV interview that they might not renew the rental agreement for the next term.

    (a) Draw a table comparing the equivalent cost of purchasing a lens from the external
         supplier while the vacant production facilities are rented out vs. the scenario if the rental
         agreement for the vacant production facilities is not renewed for the next term. [5]

    (b) VRtuoso drops the plan of renewing the rental agreement for the vacant production
         facilities instead plans to utilize the vacant production facilities for manufacturing the
         lenses within the company. In addition to the Fixed Overhead Cost, the production cost
         breakdown for a lens consists of a direct materials cost of 325.00 RMB, a direct labor
         cost of 215.00 RMB, and a variable overhead cost of 127.50 RMB. Given this new
         information, prepare a new cost table demonstrating the annual impact of

                                                 Page 8 of 54
manufacturing the lenses within the production facilities available in the company.

Should VRtuoso continue purchasing the lenses from the external supplier or start

manufacturing their own lenses?                                     [5]

(c) If VRtuoso can sell the VR headsets for 1,413 RMB each, based on the information

given above in Q4(b), draw a table demonstrating the production costs and sales

revenue of manufacturing and selling VR headsets from 0  1 M in quantity with an

increment size of 0.2 M VR headsets.                                [6]

(d) If the VRtuoso factory is running at full capacity of 0.6 M VR headsets per year with

an assumed price of 1,413 RMB per VR headset, what is the profit made by VRtuoso?

What is the safety margin for this scenario?                        [5]

(e) Draw a Break-even graph showing Total Cost (TC), Variable cost (VC), and Revenue

(REV) against production quantity (Q). Calculate the Break-even Point and indicate

this on the graph.                                                  [5]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         SAMPLE SET 2

Section A: Multiple Choice Questions [24 marks]

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options for each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

(1.1) Which of the following best aligns with the principles of Design for

Manufacturing (DFM)?                                                [2]

A. Increasing the number of parts in a design to improve flexibility in
    manufacturing.

B. Using complex shapes and intricate structures to enhance product
    uniqueness.

C. Minimizing the number of parts and using straightforward shapes to ease
    production and reduce costs.

D. Prioritizing visual design over how easy it is to make.

E. Adding redundant features to ensure product robustness.

(1.2) Which statement accurately describes a cause-effect diagram?  [2]

A. A cause-effect diagram is primarily used to illustrate the effects of a specific
    problem without identifying its root causes.

                                 Page 9 of 54
B. Cause-effect diagrams, also known as fishbone or Ishikawa diagrams, are
    visual tools used to focus on the sole cause of a given problem.

C. A cause-effect diagram called the fishbone or Ishikawa diagram is designed
    to indicate the relationships between various effects easily with no need for
    visual tools.

D. A cause-effect diagram is a visual tool used to logically organize possible
    causes for a specific problem or effect by graphically displaying them in
    increasing detail, suggesting causal relationships among theories.

E. Cause-effect diagrams called fishbone or Ishikawa diagrams are visual tools
    exclusively used to identify effects, without the need for organizing possible
    causes or establishing causal relationships.

(1.3) Which of the following 7QC tools can best be used to study how a process

changes over time?                                                 [2]

F. Cause-Effect Diagram.

G. Check Sheet.

H. Pareto Chart.

I. Control Charts.

J. Scatter Diagram

(1.4) Which of the following is not considered a project?          [2]

F. Creating a prototype for a next-generation smartphone.

G. Designing and deploying a new software algorithm for real-time data
    processing in an electronic control system

H. Developing periodic updates for an existing software system in a
    manufacturing plant.

I. Setting up a waste reduction program in an office environment.

J. Designing and constructing a printed circuit board (PCB) for a new
    electronic device.

(1.5) This technique can be mainly used in project management to identify risks,

particularly in assessing external factors and internal vulnerabilities that can

impact the project.                                                [2]

A. Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA)

B. Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT)

C. Internal Rate of Return (IRR)

                     Page 10 of 54
D. Net Present Value (NPV)
E. Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR)

(1.6) Carmen is just about to deliver the case study commissioned by the Tesla

Gigafactory project. Before she does, she arranges a meeting with the steering

committee and project sponsor associated with the Tesla Gigafactory to take

them through the case study, answer any questions or concerns they may have,

and seek to get official confirmation that the case study meets their

expectations. What process is she performing here?                   [2]

A. Deliverables Acceptance.

B. Accept Deliverables.

C. Validate Scope.

D. Plan Scope Management.

E. Close Project or Phase.

(1.7) The following organizational structures should be labeled as:  [2]

A ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Expansion; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
B ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Growth
C ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Growth; 3. Expansion; 4. Formal Organisation
D ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
E ­ 1. Growth; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Expansion

(1.8) Professional engineers have a significant role to play in ensuring that the

projects they contribute to have been developed with sustainability in mind and

should apply the 6 principles for sustainability to all their projects. One of those

principles is to `Use resources efficiently and effectively'. Which of the

following statements does NOT adhere to this principle?              [2]

A ­ Understand there are environmental limits and finite resources

B ­ Use systems and products that reduce embedded carbon, energy and water
     use, waste, and pollution

                         Page 11 of 54
C ­ Engage a waste management contractor who specializes in shipping waste
     to regions with lower environmental standards

D ­ Adopt strategies for re-use, recycling, decommissioning, and disposal of
     components and materials

E ­ Work to repair any damage

(1.9) Consider the structure of a start-up company run by an entrepreneur. Find the

correct pair of true statements                           [2]

1 Maximum standardisation and formalisation

2 Few layers: Limited middle-line managerial levels

3 Decentralized and indirect supervision

4 Wide span of control (around the entrepreneur)

A ­ 1 and 2

B ­ 3 and 4

C ­ 2 and 3

D ­ 2 and 4

E ­ 1 and 3

(1.10) It costs 1000 RMB for hand tools and 1.50 RMB labor per unit to manufacture

a product. An alternative is to manufacture the product with automated

machinery costing 15,000 RMB, with a 0.50 RMB per-unit cost. With an annual

production rate of 5000 units, how long will it take to reach the production cost

cross-over point?                                         [2]

A ­ 2.0 yr

B ­ Never

C ­ 3.6 yr

D ­ 2.8 yr

E ­ 0.9 yr

(1.11) When developing a new product, which stage has the biggest impact on the final

product's price, quality, and manufacturing time?         [2]

A ­ Mostly during manufacturing

B ­ Mostly during product development

C ­ Equally during product development and manufacturing

                   Page 12 of 54
        D ­ Mostly during sales and marketing
        E ­ After customer feedback during mass production

(1.12) In the execution phase of a project, key man resources are lost, and new staff

        join. The project manager sets up a meeting with the new team. What should be

        the most important agenda item for this meeting?                       [2]

        A ­ Discussing team building activities

        B ­ Reviewing WBS and responsibilities of all team members

        C ­ Inviting the team members to share their past project experiences

        D ­ Planning risk responses for existing risks

        E ­ Assigning someone from the new members to lead the meeting

Section B: Long Questions

Q2 [26 marks]

(d) Sustainability consists of fulfilling the needs of current generations without
    compromising the needs of future generations while ensuring a balance between the
    three sustainability pillars.

(i) Explain these three pillars of sustainability.                             [6]

(ii) Compare the Responsibility for Sustainability between Manufacturing

        Companies and End-User Consumers.                                      [4]

(e) In a circuit board assembly line, the production team has noticed an increasing number

of incorrect signal outputs on the assembled boards. These failures occur during the

signal testing phase, where the boards are not performing according to their

specifications. The issue has been identified recently, and the failure rate seems to be

higher in some batches. Your task is to investigate the root causes of this issue using a

Cause and Effect (Fishbone) Diagram. Plot the Fishbone Diagram, focusing on the most

relevant categories: Machines, Materials, Methods, and Manpower. List two potential

causes under each category that could be contributing to the incorrect signal output

issue.                                                                         [6]

(f) Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to
    project activities to meet the project requirements.

(i) In project management, what is the purpose of the Benefit-Cost Ratio

        (BCR)? Given that Project A has a BCR of 1, what can we infer about this

        project?                                                               [3]

(ii) What is the term used to describe the process of developing a detailed

        description of the project and product, often represented as a hierarchical

        decomposition of the project scope?                                    [1]

                           Page 13 of 54
(iii) As a project manager of an EPC company, you have identified all risks

initially and arranged them according to the category. What should you do

next?                              [1]

(g) In conflict management, understanding various strategies is crucial, such as Competing,
    Collaborating, Avoiding, Accommodating, and Compromising. Each strategy leads to
    different win or lose outcomes for the parties involved in the conflict. Based on the
    scenarios below, identify the conflict resolution strategy used and determine whether
    each side of the conflict experiences a win or a loss.

(i) Two team members are arguing over which software tool to use for tracking

project progress. The project manager sees that the argument is taking too

much time and decides to postpone the discussion indefinitely, hoping the

issue will resolve itself.         [1]

(ii) A senior stakeholder dislikes a minor feature in the project, but the project

manager knows that arguing over it could damage the relationship. To

maintain harmony, the manager agreed to remove the feature, even though

it was beneficial.                 [1]

(iii) The marketing and development teams disagree on the launch date. The

developers need more time for testing, while marketing wants to meet a

deadline for a big campaign. Instead of arguing, both teams work together

to adjust the scope, ensuring essential features are tested while still hitting

the marketing deadline.            [1]

(iv) A critical bug is delaying the project. The lead engineer insists on a lengthy,
        detailed fix, while the project manager, under pressure from upper
        management, orders an immediate workaround to meet the deadline. [1]

(v) Two departments are fighting over resource allocation. One wants five

additional developers, while the other needs three. The project manager

negotiates, giving each team some of what they want, one team gets three

developers, and the other two.     [1]

                    Page 14 of 54
Q3 [25 marks]

As a young entrepreneur, you would like to guarantee a healthy total cost of ownership by
evaluating the net present value of your young company while utilizing discounted cash
flow analysis.

(f) Consider your company is designing a new product that will take your company three

years to design, fabricate, and build. For this product, your company's expenses are

1,000,000 RMB per year, which will increase with an inflation rate of 5% annually.

How much must your company quote your customer (for delivery in three years' time)

if your company would like to cover their expenses and earn a net profit (in today's

equivalent currency) of 100,000 RMB?                               [3]

(g) Consider your company would like to purchase a new machine that has a purchase price
    of 10 Million (M) RMB with a lifetime of five years. The machine will require annual
    maintenance costs of 1 M RMB associated with annual power costs of 0.5 M RMB. All
    costs are fixed with inflation of 10% applied to power only after year 1.

             i) Demonstrate the total projected costs over the lifetime of this new machine.
                                                                                                        [3]

             ii) Analyze the total cost of ownership over the lifetime of this new machine.
                                                                                                        [3]

(h) Consider you have decided that your company will make a significant investment into
    expanding its presence in China by setting up a large assembly facility in Chengdu.
    Your company has estimated its initial set-up costs to be in the region of 6,398 M RMB.
    Net income from this new assembly facility is forecasted as follows:

                               Year (Y) 1: 1,400 M RMB
                               Y2: 1,450 M RMB
                               Y3: 1,550 M RMB
                               Y4: 1,625 M RMB
                               Y5: 1,480 M RMB

i) Calculate the projected payback time for this new assembly facility to the

nearest month.                                                     [5]

ii) Calculate the net present value of this new assembly facility based on a

discounting factor of 5%.                                          [5]

iii) Comment on the attractiveness of this new assembly facility.  [3]

                Page 15 of 54
(i) Consider a part of cash-flow with 30 days net payment terms for cash-in and cash-out

given in Table Q2 below. Determine the cumulative cash towards the end of each

month (M). The currency utilized for transactions in this cash flow is RMB.  [3]

                Table Q2: Cash-Flow Table

                M0 M1 M2 M3 M4 M5

Sales Bookings         10 12             8        20 100          0

Shipments              0  10  12                  8  20 100

Components Order 5        6              4        10 50           0

Q4 [25 marks]

    You work for a Chinese telecom company that supplies the industry with Wi-Fi routers.
    The company has an annual production capacity of 45,000 routers. Your production cost
    breakdown for 45,000 routers is shown in Table Q4 below.

                            Table Q4: Cost breakdown for 45,000 routers

           Cost category                 Annual Cost (RMB)

Direct Materials                                       405,000
Direct Labour                                          225,000
Variable Overhead                                       45,000
Fixed Overhead Cost                                    562,500
                                                     1,237,500
                Total

An outside supplier has approached your company and offered to supply the Wi-Fi routers
to your company for 27.5 RMB each. Your manager has asked you to carry out an analysis
of this offer. He advises you that the Fixed Overhead Costs for the production facilities
will NOT be avoided if you purchase the routers from this outside supplier as your
company has no other use for the vacant production facilities if you purchase from the
outside supplier.

(a) Draw a table comparing the cost of making the routers internally on a per router

basis with the costs of purchasing the routers from the outside supplier. Do you

recommend that your company purchases from an outside supplier?              [5]

(b) Your manager now tells you he can rent out the production facilities for 570,000

RMB per year. Given this new information, prepare a new cost table showing the

impact of the facilities rental. Does this information change your recommendation

on whether to purchase from an outside supplier?                             [5]

(c) Using the information provided in Table Q4 and knowing that:

                          Page 16 of 54
 TC = FC + (Q * VC),

 where

    TC = Total Cost
    FC = Fixed Cost
    VC = Variable Cost = (Direct Material + Direct Labour + Variable
    Overhead) all per router
    Q = Quantity Produced

If your company can sell the Wi-Fi routers for 40.00 RMB each, draw a table
showing the production costs and sales revenue of manufacturing and selling
router quantities from 10,000  30,000 routers in 5000 router increments. [5]

(d) If the factory is running at full capacity of 45,000 routers per year with an assumed

price of 40.00 RMB per router, what is the profit made by the company? Also,

calculate the safety margin for this scenario.                [5]

(e) Draw a Break-even graph showing Total Cost (TC), Variable cost (VC), Fixed Cost

(FC), and Revenue (REV) against production quantity (Q). Calculate the Break-

even Point and indicate this on the graph.                    [5]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        SAMPLE SET 3

Section A: Multiple Choice Questions

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options to each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

(1.1) Why do companies use project management? Choose the correct combination

of statements.                                                [2]

1 - To define the project and agree with the customer

2 - To estimate project cost and make proposals

3 - To assess risk and failure points and make back up plans

4 - To allocate the right resource at the right time

5 ­ To track the schedule only once the plan is made

                Page 17 of 54
A­1+2+3+5
B­1+2+4+5
C­2+3+4+5
D­1+3+4+5
E­1+2+3+4

(1.2) In a Profit and Loss (Income) statement, Earnings before Interest, Tax,

Depreciation, and Amortisation (EBITA) is equal to:  [2]

A ­ Total Sales minus Cost of Sales

B ­ Total Expenses minus Net Profit

C ­ Total Sales minus (Salaries + Rent)

D ­ Gross Profit minus all company operating expenses (salaries and rent etc.)

E ­ Full production costs minus Net Profit

(1.3) If a company has an organisational structure as shown below in Figure Q1(1.3),

it is called:                                        [2]

               Figure Q1(1.3)
               Page 18 of 54
A ­ A Team-Based Structure
B ­ A Matrix Structure
C ­ A Divisional Structure
D ­ A Simple Startup Structure
E ­ A Military Command Structure

(1.4) A Sole Trader Company is:                                       [2]

A ­ A business you run as an individual. You can keep all your business' profits
     after you have paid tax on them. You are personally responsible for any
     losses your business makes.

B ­ A business in which you and your business partner (or partners) personally
     share responsibility for your business. You can share all your business's
     profits between the partners. Each partner pays tax on their share of the
     profits.

C ­ A company whose shares can be freely traded on the stock market.

D ­ An organisation you can set up to avoid paying tax or having any
    responsibility as a director.

E ­ An organisation you can set up to run your business- it is responsible for
     everything it does, and its finances are separate from your personal
     finances. Any profit it makes is owned by the company after it
     pays Corporation Tax. The company can then share its profits amongst its
     shareholders.

(1.5) In a simple Lease­or-Buy calculation, you require a radar equipment for a

project. The cost to buy the equipment is 30,000 RMB plus an additional 500

RMB per day. You are able to lease the equipment from a local company at a

cost of 2000 RMB per day. What is the maximum length of time you can lease

the equipment before it is cheaper to buy the equipment?              [2]

A ­ 3 days

B ­ 10 days

C ­ 20 days

D ­ 30 days

E ­ 16.333 days

                 Page 19 of 54
(1.6) If TC = Total Cost, F = Fixed Costs, VC = Variable Cost, SP = Selling Price,

R = Revenue, and Q = Quantity of products sold, then the breakeven point of a

project is defined as:                                                        [2]

A ­ When F ­ (VC)*Q = (SP)*Q

B ­ When TC = R

C ­ When (R)*Q = SP ­ VC

D ­ When TC = F + (VC)*Q

E ­ When R = (SP)*Q

(1.7) What is a Profit & Loss (Income) statement?                             [2]

A ­ It only summarises all the sales revenues for the financial year

B ­ It only summarises all the payments or expenses for the financial year

C ­ It is only used when the company makes a loss

D ­ It summarises the sales revenues, payments, and expenses for the financial
         year

E ­ It is only used when the company makes a profit

(1.8) In a Profit and Loss (Income) statement, the Gross Profit is equal to:  [2]

A ­ Total Expenses minus Net Profit

B ­ Sales minus Expenses

C ­ Total Sales minus Cost of Sales

D ­ Total Sales minus (Salaries + Rent)

E ­ Full production costs minus Net Profit

(1.9) If a company is described as having a `Defender (i.e. market leader or stable

market)' Strategic Posture, it displays the following characteristics:        [2]

Emphasis Market Focus Structure and Process Technology

A - Pioneering Aggressively          Organic: informal,  Contingent,
                                     decentralised, and  multiple,
changes explore and                  flexible            prototypical
                                                         technologies;
and         exploit new

innovation

                        Page 20 of 54
                   market                                    low degree of
                   opportunities                             routinisation
                                                             and
                                                             mechanisation

B - Stability      Maintain a      Mechanistic:              One core
       and         small niche     hierarchical,             highly cost-
       efficiency                  centralised, and control  efficient
                                                             technology

C - Balanced:      Defend core     Matrix organisation ­     Dual core
       minimised   business while  coalition between core    with emphasis
       risks and   cautiously      functions                 on applied
       maximise    exploit proven                            research
       profits     new markets
                   by imitating
                   Prospectors

D - Reluctant Unsure               Maintain whatever         Unsure
       to act due                  structure is in place;
       to                          often a weak link with
       instability                 strategy, which is
       and                         unclear
       uncertainty

E - Stability      Aggressively    Organic: informal,        Dual core
       and         explore and     decentralised, and        with emphasis
       efficiency  exploit new     flexible                  on applied
                   market                                    research
                   opportunities

(1.10) Design for Manufacturing (DFM) is an important part of any product

development cycle (e.g., initial design, final design, fabrication, production, and

product launch). Which item below is correct:                              [2]

A ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied in the production stage because
     of the higher impact and lower cost of changes due to the product being
     manufactured and can be changed promptly.

B ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied during product launch because of
     the highest impact and lowest cost of changes.

C ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied to the initial design because of the
     highest impact and lowest cost of changes.

D ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied after the initial design and before
     production when the final design is being finalized and can effectively
     implement required changes according to customer requirements.

E ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied in all stages after design because
     we are sure that the customer requirements are recognized completely and
     any changes in the future do not impose higher costs of changes.

                   Page 21 of 54
(1.11) There is a variety of actionable sustainable design principles that can be
         implemented to create better designs. Some of them are below except: [2]
         A ­ Dematerialization.
         B ­ Migration to product-service systems.
         C ­ Limit or eliminate long-distance outsourcing.
         D ­ Design for a shorter period of usage.
         E ­ Invest in simulation.

(1.12) When analyzing broad causes by looking at the specific parts, the Pareto chart

is one of the applicable tools for the control of quality. Which of the following

statements about a Pareto chart is true?                                        [2]

A ­ It is a bar graph that displays the relative frequency or size of problems in
     descending order of importance.

B ­ It is a line graph that shows the cumulative percentage of problems plotted
     against the total number of occurrences.

C ­ It is a scatter plot that indicates the correlation between two variables.

D ­ It is a pie chart that breaks down the total number of problems into
     categories.

E ­ None of the above statements.

Page 22 of 54
Section B: Long Questions

Q2 You are a project manager working on China's high speed railway. You need to install
         a major new piece of electrical equipment into a new station that is being built at
         Chengdu's new airport. The only way to install the new equipment is to hire a tower
         crane to lift it into position. As the project manager, you have collected all the
         information and tasks required to build a tower crane on the station site and recorded
         the tasks in Table Q2(a).

        Table Q2(a): Tower Crane tasks and durations.

  Task                  Task Description  Duration         Predecessors
Number                                     (days)
        Project Start (Milestone)              0                  0
    0   Specify Crane                          3                  1
    1   Survey Site                            4                  1
    2   Survey Power Supply                    3                  2
    3   Select Site                            1                 3,4
    4   Order Tower Crane                      2                  5
    5   Arrange Transport                      4                  5
    6   Order Mobile Erector Crane             3                  5
    7   Install Concrete Plinth                5                6,7,8
    8   Confirm Site Access                    1                  9
    9   Get Mobile Erector Crane on Site       4                  9
   10   Crane Parts on Site                    5               10,11
   11   Install Crane Base                     2                 12
   12   Install Tower & Crane Head             1               10,11
   13   Assemble Jib                           2               12,13
   14   Install Jib                            1                 15
   15   Install counterweight                  1                 16
   16   Apply Crane Power                      1                 17
   17   Test Crane                             1                 18
   18   Project end                            0
   19

(a) Show the above information on a Network diagram showing each task duration

and the interdependencies of each task.                             [8]

(b) Using the Network diagram:

(i) List the critical path tasks in the order they occur.           [3]

(ii) Calculate the project's overall duration (show your working).  [2]

(c) Develop a Gantt chart for this project showing all tasks, interdependencies,

slack time, and critical path.                                      [7]

                           Page 23 of 54
     (d) If Task 8 (Install Concrete Plinth) cannot be started until the `Mobile Erector
              Crane' has been ordered (Task 7) has been completed:

     (i) Calculate the new project duration and describe how this change

                     impacts the critical path.              [2]

     (ii) Comment on the usefulness of a Gantt chart to a project manager when

                     changes occur.                          [3]

Q.3

     (h) Design For Manufacturing (DFM) consists of some main principles such as Simplicity,
         Standardization, Tolerance, Material Selection, Automation, and Process Integration.

     (iv) Describe briefly any two of these DFM principles.  [4]

     (v) The 4Rs in particular are very effective tools in building a circular economy for

     sustainable products. It includes four principles that can be applied by almost

     every individual and have an exponential effect. List any two of these

     principles.                                             [2]

     (i) Quality control (QC) is a procedure or set of procedures intended to ensure that a
         manufactured product or performed service adheres to a defined set of quality criteria
         or meets the requirements of the client or customer.

     (i) By using seven basic tools of quality, we can manage the quality of our product

     or process effectively. Known around the world as the seven-quality control (7-

     QC) tools. List any four of these tools.                [4]

     (ii) Let's say you are a manufacturer of printed circuit boards (PCBs) for electronic
              devices. You want to monitor the defect rate of your PCBs to ensure that they
              meet the required quality standards. You decide to monitor the defect rate of
              your PCBs. After collecting data for a period of time, you plot the data and
              check the trend of the defect rate over time. Which quality tool is used? [1]

     (iii) In the schematic quality tool that you used in above (ii), what exactly do you

     see if noticed that the process is unstable?            [2]

     (j) Robust Design is an engineering methodology for improving productivity during

     research and development so that high-quality products can be produced quickly and

     at a low cost.

                                     Page 24 of 54
(i) The four different versions of the quadratic loss function are plotted in Figure

Q3 based on the Taguchi overview. List the name of any two of these loss

functions.                                        [2]

(ii) In robust design terminology, the performance of a product as measured by the

                                 Figure Q3

quality characteristic varies in the field due to a variety of causes. We call all

such causes noise factors, and they can be generally classified into three types.

Explain any two types of noise factors.           [4]

(k) Six-sigma is a statistical concept that measures a process in terms of defects ­ at the six
    sigma level, there are 3.4 defects per million opportunities:

(i) List any of the five main phases in 6-Sigma.  [2]

(ii) There are five key roles for Six Sigma in manufacturing including Executive

Leadership, Champions, Master Black Belts, Black Belts, and Green Belts. Explain

briefly any two of these roles.                   [4]

            Page 25 of 54
Q4

    (a) Derive the theoretical break-even revenue relationship in terms of fixed costs,

    variable costs, and selling price.                                        [3]

    You work for XYZ, a company that requires 17,500 optical transceivers annually to
    manufacture its optical wireless communication (OWC) systems. These optical
    transceivers are supplied by an external supplier to your company for 57 RMB each.
    Moreover, your company has some vacant production facilities that adds to the total
    annual costs with Fixed Overhead Cost of 568,750 RMB. Currently, the vacant
    production facilities are rented out for 225,000 RMB per year but your manager has
    informed you that the rental agreement is nearing an end soon.

    (b) Draw a table comparing the equivalent cost of purchasing a transceiver from

    the external supplier while the vacant production facilities are rented out with

    the scenario when the rental agreement has expired.                       [5]

    (c) Your manager now tells you he wants to utilise the vacant production facilities
             and manufacture the transceivers within the company. In addition to the Fixed
             Overhead Cost, the production cost breakdown for a transceiver is shown in
             Table Q4(c) below.

    Table Q4(c): Cost breakdown for a transceiver

               Cost Category            Cost per Transceiver (RMB)

    Direct Materials                                                  22.50
    Direct Labour                                                     12.50
    Variable Overhead
                                                                        2.50

    Given this new information, prepare a new cost table showing the annual impact

    of manufacturing the transceivers within the production facilities available in

    the company. Should your company continue purchasing the transceivers from

    the external supplier or start manufacturing their own transceivers?      [5]

    (d) Using the information provided in Table Q4(c), if your company can sell the

    optical transceivers for 78.125 RMB each, draw a table showing the production

    costs and sales revenue of manufacturing and selling transceiver quantities from

    3,500  17,500 transceivers in 3,500 transceiver increments.               [5]

    (e) If the factory is running at full capacity of 17,500 transceivers per year with an

    assumed price of 78.125 RMB per transceiver, what is the profit made by the

    company? What is the safety margin for this scenario?                     [3]

    (f) Draw a Breakeven graph showing Total Cost (TC), Variable cost (VC), Fixed

    Cost (FC), and Revenue (REV) against production quantity (Q). Calculate the

    Breakeven Point and indicate this on the graph.                           [5]

                              Page 26 of 54
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        SAMPLE SET 4

Section A: Multiple Choice Questions

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options to each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

(1.1) Which item below is correct regarding Design for Manufacturing (DFM): [2]

         F. As a general rule, DFM can't be started at the initial stages of product design
             before fabrication.

         G. It is usually accepted (demonstrated) that 70 to 80% of production costs are
             determined by design decisions.

         H. DFM is a design method to reduce the overall cost of production by
             increasing the complexity of manufacturing operations.

         I. The DFM may impose higher manufacturing costs, but instead, it can
             benefit from higher customer satisfaction because of improved product
             quality.

         J. While manufacturers were facing strong competition from other
             manufacturers (rivals), at the time, they were under pressure to increase
             production efficiency while increasing costs of production.

(1.2) Which statement accurately describes a cause-effect diagram?  [2]

F. A cause-effect diagram is primarily used to illustrate the effects of a specific
    problem without identifying its root causes.

G. Cause-effect diagrams, also known as fishbone or Ishikawa diagrams, are
    visual tools used to focus on the sole cause of a given problem.

H. A cause-effect diagram called the fishbone or Ishikawa diagram is designed
    to indicate the relationships between various effects easily with no need for
    visual tools.

I. A cause-effect diagram is a visual tool used to logically organize possible
    causes for a specific problem or effect by graphically displaying them in
    increasing detail, suggesting causal relationships among theories.

J. Cause-effect diagrams called fishbone or Ishikawa diagrams are visual tools
    exclusively used to identify effects, without the need for organizing possible
    causes or establishing causal relationships.

Page 27 of 54
(1.3) Which of the following statements best describes the three pillars of

sustainability?                                              [2]

K. Sustainability involves meeting the current generation's needs without
    consideration for future generations, emphasizing economic growth,
    environmental care, and social well-being.

L. Sustainability entails achieving economic growth, environmental care, and
    social well-being simultaneously, fulfilling the needs of current generations
    without compromising the needs of future generations.

M. Sustainability primarily focuses on economic growth, with minimal
    consideration for environmental and social aspects, to fulfill the needs of
    the current generation.

N. Sustainability prioritizes environmental care over economic growth and
    social well-being, neglecting the importance of balancing all three pillars.

O. Sustainability emphasizes social well-being as the sole pillar, with
    economic growth and environmental care being secondary considerations
    in fulfilling the needs of current and future generations.

(1.4) Which of the following is not a project?               [2]

K. Programming regular software updates for an electronic control system in a
    manufacturing plant.

L. Developing and implementing a software algorithm for real-time data
    processing in an electronic control system

M. Developing a prototype for a next-generation smartphone.

N. Implementing a recycling program in an office building.

O. Designing and building a printed circuit board (PCB) for a new electronic
    device.

(1.5) Which of the following is not true about the initial phase of a project? [2]

         F. The cost associated at the beginning of the project is highest.
         G. Stakeholders have the maximum influence during this phase.
         H. The highest uncertainty is at this stage of the project.
         I. The initial scope is defined, and initial financial resources are committed.

                                       Page 28 of 54
J. All the above statements are correct.

(1.6) Which of the following statements about the WBS is most correct in the project

management context?                                                   [2]

A. WBS stands for Work Breakdown Statement.

B. The WBS includes 100 percent of the work of the project.

C. Any work not included in the WBS is out of scope.

D. WBS can decompose through project work packages and cannot by phases
    of a project.

E. B & C

(1.7) Consider the structure of a start-up company run by an entrepreneur. Find the

correct pair of true statements.                                      [2]

5 Maximum standardisation and formalisation
6 Few layers: Limited middle-line managerial levels
7 Decentralised and indirect supervision
8 Wide span of control (around the entrepreneur)

A ­ 1 and 2
B ­ 3 and 4
C ­ 2 and 3
D ­ 2 and 4
E ­ 1 and 3

(1.8) The following organisational structures should be labelled as:  [2]

                     Page 29 of 54
A ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Expansion; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
B ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Growth
C ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Growth; 3. Expansion; 4. Formal Organisation
D ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
E ­ 1. Growth; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Expansion

(1.9) It costs 1000 RMB for hand tools and 1.50 RMB labour per unit to manufacture

a product. An alternative is to manufacture the product with automated

machinery costing 15,000 RMB, with a 0.50 RMB per-unit cost. With an annual

production rate of 5000 units, how long will it take to reach the production cost

cross-over point?                                                 [2]

A ­ 2.0 yr

B ­ Never

C ­ 3.6 yr

D ­ 2.8 yr

E ­ 0.9 yr

(1.10) A company has been in business for approximately 12 months and has prepared

financial projections to present to an investor. Over the last 12 months the

company has sold 300,000 CNY of their existing products which cost them

150,000 CNY to manufacture. In addition, the company has been working on a

new product design which cost 100,000 CNY to develop and has been valued

at 200,000 CNY. The new product will replace the existing product so all

existing product designs are valued at 0 CNY. What is the present valuation of

the company?                                                      [2]

A ­ 250,000 CNY

B ­ 150,000 CNY

C ­ 500,000 CNY

D ­ 50,000 CNY

E ­ 350,000 CNY

                   Page 30 of 54
(1.11) Project risk management is best described as:                [2]

A ­ Managing responses to threats

B ­ Identifying and acknowledging threats and opportunities

C ­ Planning responses to threats

D ­ Minimising threats and maximising opportunities

E ­ Implementing responses to threats

(1.12) Risk response planning consists of four main strategies. Which of the following

does not fall under the main strategies of risk response planning?  [2]

A ­ Avoidance

B ­ Acceptance

C ­ Transference

D ­ Mitigation

E ­ Identification

                    Page 31 of 54
Section B: Long Questions

Q2 As a young entrepreneur you would like to guarantee a healthy total cost of ownership
         via evaluating net present value of your young company while utilising discounted cash
         flow analysis.

(a) Consider your company is designing a new product that will take your company
         three years to design, fabricate, and build. For this product, your company's
         expenses are 1,000,000 RMB per year, which will increase with inflation rate
         of 5% annually. How much must your company quote your customer (for
         delivery in three years time) if your company would like to cover their expenses
         and earn a net profit (in today's equivalent currency) of 100,000 RMB? [3]

(b) Consider your company would like to purchase a new machine that has a
         purchase price of 10 Million (M) RMB with a lifetime of five years. The
         machine will require annual maintenance costs of 1 M RMB associated with
         annual power costs of 0.5 M RMB. All costs are fixed with inflation of 10%
         applied to power only after year 1.

(i) Demonstrate the total projected costs over the lifetime of this new

machine.                                                            [3]

(ii) Analyse the total cost of ownership over the lifetime of this new

machine.                                                            [4]

(c) Consider you have decided that your company will make a significant
         investment into expanding its presence in China by setting up a large assembly
         facility in Chengdu. Your company has estimated its initial set up costs to be in
         the region of 6,398 M RMB. Net income from this new assembly facility is
         forecasted as follows:

Year (Y) 1: 1,400 M RMB
Y2: 1,450 M RMB
Y3: 1,550 M RMB
Y4: 1,625 M RMB
Y5: 1,480 M RMB

(i) Calculate the projected payback time for this new assembly facility to

the nearest month.                                                  [5]

(ii) Calculate the net present value of this new assembly facility based on a

discounting factor of 5%.                                           [5]

(iii) Comment on the attractiveness of this new assembly facility.  [3]

(d) Consider a part of cash-flow with 30 days net payment terms for cash-in and
         cash-out given in Table Q2 below. Determine the cumulative cash towards the

                           Page 32 of 54
     end of each month (M). The currency utilised for transactions in this cash-flow

     is RMB.                                                                [3]

                     Table Q2: Cash-Flow Table

                     M0 M1 M2 M3 M4 M5

     Sales Bookings  10  12         8           20 100                   0

     Shipments       0   10         12          8                    20  100

     Components Order 5  6          4           10                   50  0

Q.3

     (l) DFM is the process of designing components for ease of manufacturing high-quality
         products at a lower cost.

     (vi) The product development cycle in general consists of the initial design, final

     design, fabrication, production, and product launch. Draw a plot while

     showing the effectiveness of the DFM application versus the product

     development cycles (aforementioned) based on both the impact and cost of

     changes.                                                               [4]

     (vii) Sustainability can make a balance between three main pillars. List any two of

     these pillars.                                                         [2]

     (m)The goal of Quality control (QC) is to identify any defects after a product is developed,
         but before it's released to production. By using seven basic tools of quality, we can
         manage the quality of our product or process effectively, known around the world as
         the seven quality control (7-QC) tools:

     (iv) Which 7-QC tool looks at a bar chart that is sorted in descending order from the

     highest frequency to the lowest frequency from left to right, while the height of

     the bars reflects the frequency or the impact of the problems?         [1]

     (v) Which of the 7-QC tools is a graph used to study how a process changes over

     time?                                                                  [1]

     (vi) Assume fifteen sample points are collected for yield rate over time in a specific

              process, see Table Q3(b). Utilizing the tool mentioned in (ii), create a plot
              demonstrating an uncontrolled variation, indicative of an unstable process.
              Provide a visual representation by including a central line, upper and lower

                     Page 33 of 54
    control limits, and notes highlighting the instability of the process.  [6]

    Table Q3(b)

    (n) Robust Design is an engineering methodology for improving productivity during
        research and development so that high-quality products can be produced quickly and
        at a low cost.

    (iii)Consider a power supply circuit used in a stereo system for which the target

    output voltage is 110 volts. If the output voltage falls outside 110±20 volts, then

    the stereo fails in half the situations and must be repaired. Suppose it costs $100

    to repair the stereo. Using the Taguchi quadratic loss function, compute the

    average loss associated with a particular output voltage of 100 volts.  [3]

    (iv)How can the concept of robust design increase the quality of a process/product

    (hint: the main idea behind the robust design)?                         [2]

    (o) In an electronic manufacturing process, a new component is designed with a parameter
        range of 20±1 mm. The process, characterized by a mean value of 19.8 mm and a
        standard deviation of 0.2 mm, is assessed for its capability to meet the specifications.
        Answer the following questions:

    (i) Calculate the process capability index Cpk for the given parameter range. [4]

    (ii) Discuss your assessment over the obtained Cpk value in term of the risk associated

    with this manufacturing process.                                        [2]

Q4

    (c) Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to
        project activities to meet the project requirements. Answer the following questions.

    (v) Project A has a BCR of 1.4. What can we infer from this?            [2]

    Page 34 of 54
(vi)During one of the standup meetings, a team member asked you the difference

between standard and regulation. How would you respond?                        [2]

(vii)  Compare the main elements involved in "Sample Basic Sender /

Receiver" with Interactive" communication models in a project.

       [4]

(d) Project schedule management includes the processes required to manage the timely
    completion of the project. One of the common techniques used is CPM (critical path
    method). The critical path is the sequence of activities that represents the longest path
    through a project, which determines the minimum possible project duration. Consider
    a project (assume date 0 for project starting) with the details shown in Table Q4(b) and
    answer the following questions.

                               Table Q4(b)

(v) Plot a CPM network diagram for the above project (hint: show activity on

       nodes and concerning their relevant dependencies).                      [4]

(vi) Perform the forward pass analysis through the schedule network and

       compute Early Start and Early Finish dates for all activities.          [4]

(vii) Perform the backward pass analysis through the schedule network and

       compute Late Start and Late Finish dates for all activities.            [4]

(viii) Calculate the total float (slack) for all activities.                   [2]

(ix) Define the Critical Path (sequence of activities that are located on the

       critical path).                                                         [1]

Assume the activity "C" is completed with 1 day delay. Discuss how the consequence of this

delay can affect the project.                                                  [2]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        SAMPLE SET 5

                               Page 35 of 54
Section A: Multiple-Choice Questions

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options for each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

(1.1) What is a critical path?                                        [2]

A ­ The longest path through the project network with the least amount of slack

B ­ The shortest path through the project network with the maximum amount
of slack

C ­ The shortest path through the project network with the least amount of slack

D ­ The shortest chain of tasks that considers both task dependencies and
resource dependencies

E ­ The longest chain of tasks that considers both task dependencies and
resource dependencies

(1.2) Consider the structure of a start-up company run by an entrepreneur. Find the

correct pair of true statements.                                      [2]

9 Maximum standardisation and formalisation
10 Few layers: Limited middle-line managerial levels
11 Decentralised and indirect supervision
12 A wide span of control (around the entrepreneur)

A ­ 1 and 2
B ­ 3 and 4
C ­ 2 and 3
D ­ 2 and 4
E ­ 1 and 3

(1.3) The following organisational structures should be labelled as:  [2]

                                Page 36 of 54
A ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Expansion; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
B ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Growth
C ­ 1. Start-up; 2. Growth; 3. Expansion; 4. Formal Organisation
D ­ 1. Expansion; 2. Start-up; 3. Growth; 4. Formal Organisation
E ­ 1. Growth; 2. Start-up; 3. Formal Organisation; 4. Expansion

(1.4) A project has more than one critical path. What does this mean?  [2]

A ­ Risk increases

B ­ Risk decreases

C ­ The duration of the project reduces

D ­ The project may cost less

E ­ Nothing happens

(1.5) Which document is created by breaking a project scope into smaller and more

manageable elements?                                                   [2]

A ­ Scope baseline

B ­ Organisational breakdown structure (OBS)

C ­ Work breakdown structure (WBS)

D ­ Statement of work (SOW)

E ­ Budget report

                      Page 37 of 54
(1.6) In the execution phase of a project, key resources are lost, and new staff joins.

The project manager sets up a meeting with the new team. What should be the

most important agenda item for this meeting?                           [2]

A ­ Discussing team building activities

B ­ Reviewing WBS and responsibilities of all team members

C ­ Inviting the team members to share their past project experiences

D ­ Planning risk responses for existing risks

E ­ All of the above

(1.7) It costs 1000 RMB for hand tools and 1.50 RMB labour per unit to manufacture

a product. An alternative is to manufacture the product with automated

machinery costing 15,000 RMB, with a 0.50 RMB per-unit cost. With an annual

production rate of 5000 units, how long will it take to reach the production cost

cross-over point?                                                      [2]

A ­ 2.0 yr

B ­ Never

C ­ 3.6 yr

D ­ 2.8 yr

E ­ 0.9 yr

(1.8) Design for Manufacturing (DFM) is an important part of any product
         development cycle. Which item below is not correct regarding DFM: [2]

         A ­ The time required for design for manufacturability is determined by the
                  product's complexity, the organization's size, and the resources
                  available.

         B ­ As a general rule, DFM is a continuous process that begins at the initial
                  stages of product design and continues through the entire product
                  lifecycle.

         C ­ The DFM is more effective to be applied to the initial design because of the
                  highest impact and lowest cost of changes.

                      Page 38 of 54
D ­ The DFM may impose higher manufacturing costs, instead can benefit from
         higher customer satisfaction because of improved product quality.

E ­ The DFM consists of some main principles such as Simplicity,
         Standardization, Tolerance, Material Selection, Automation, and
         Process Integration.

(1.9) In the development of a new product, the impact on Price, Quality, and

Manufacturing time is:                                                   [2]

A ­ Product Development: 20-30%, Manufacturing: 70-80%

B ­ Product Development: 70-80%, Manufacturing: 20-30%

C ­ Product Development: 50%, Manufacturing: 50%

D ­ Sales & Marketing: 33.3%, Product Development: 33.3%, Manufacturing:
    33.3%

E ­ Sales & Marketing: 50%, Product Development: 50%

(1.10) Which of the following statements best fits with the definition of the control

charts?                                                                  [2]

A. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is stable and
    predictable over time.

B. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is profitable or not.

C. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is meeting
    customer demand or not.

D. Control charts are used to determine whether a process is efficient or not.

E. None of the above statements is correct.

                        Page 39 of 54
(1.11) Which of the following statements is true regarding process capability? [2]

         A. Process capability is a measure of how efficient a process is in terms of time
             and resources.

         B. Process capability refers to the degree to which a process can consistently
             produce output that meets process specifications.

         C. Process capability is determined solely by the skill level of the workers
             involved in the process.

         D. Process capability is not relevant for service industries.

         E. None of the above statements is true regarding process capability.

(1.12) The three variables of the project planning process:  [2]

A ­ Cost, Time, Performance

B ­ Price, Delivery, Quality

C ­ Power, Speed, Cost

D ­ Slack Time, Tasks, Resources

E ­ Manpower, Critical Path, Temperature

                        Page 40 of 54
Section B: Long Questions

Q2 As a young entrepreneur you would like to guarantee a healthy total cost of ownership
         via evaluating the net present value of your young company while utilising discounted
         cash flow analysis.

(a) Consider your company is designing a new product that will take your company
         three years to design, fabricate, and build. For this product, your company's
         expenses are 1,000,000 RMB per year, which will increase with an inflation
         rate of 5% annually. How much must your company quote your customer (for
         delivery in three years' time) if your company would like to cover their expenses
         and earn a net profit (in today's equivalent currency) of 100,000 RMB? [3]

(b) Consider your company would like to purchase a new machine that has a
         purchase price of 10 Million (M) RMB with a lifetime of five years. The
         machine will require annual maintenance costs of 1 M RMB associated with
         annual power costs of 0.5 M RMB. All costs are fixed with inflation of 10%
         applied to power only after year 1.

(i) Demonstrate the total projected costs over the lifetime of this new

machine.                                                            [3]

(ii) Analyse the total cost of ownership over the lifetime of this new

machine.                                                            [4]

(c) Consider you have decided that your company will make a significant
         investment into expanding its presence in China by setting up a large assembly
         facility in Chengdu. Your company has estimated its initial setup costs to be in
         the region of 6,398 M RMB. Net income from this new assembly facility is
         forecasted as follows:

Year (Y) 1: 1,400 M RMB
Y2: 1,450 M RMB
Y3: 1,550 M RMB
Y4: 1,625 M RMB
Y5: 1,480 M RMB

(i) Calculate the projected payback time for this new assembly facility to

the nearest month.                                                  [5]

(ii) Calculate the net present value of this new assembly facility based on a

discounting factor of 5%.                                           [7]

(iii) Comment on the attractiveness of this new assembly facility.  [3]

                           Page 41 of 54
Q.3

     (p) DFM is the process of designing components for ease of manufacturing high-quality
         products at a lower cost.

     (viii) The product development cycle in general consists of the initial design, final

     design, fabrication, production, and product launch. Which stage is more

     effective in DFM regarding the impact and cost of changes?        [3]

     (ix) Sustainability can make a balance between three main pillars. List any two of

     these pillars.                                                    [2]

     (q) The goal of Quality control (QC) is to identify any defects after a product is developed,
         but before it's released to production. By using seven basic tools of quality, we can
         manage the quality of our product or process effectively. Known around the world as
         the seven-quality control (7-QC) tools.

     (vii) List any two of these tools.                                [2]

     (viii) A company that produces electronic devices is experiencing a high rate of

     product returns due to defects. How might a cause-effect diagram be used to

     identify the root causes of these defects?                        [4]

     (ix) The cost of quality can be categorized into four categories including Prevention

     Cost, Appraisal Cost, Internal Failure Cost, and External Failure Cost.

     Classified two types of costs accordingly, first the cost of quality-related

     training, and second product recall and warranty repairs.         [2]

     (r) Robust Design is an engineering methodology for improving productivity during
         research and development so that high-quality products can be produced quickly and
         at a low cost.

     (v) From the viewpoint of robust design, an engineering design problem can be

     optimized through three main steps. List any two of these steps.  [2]

     (vi)The response of the product is denoted by y. The response can be the output of
         the product or some other suitable quality characteristic. Three classes of
         parameters (as shown in Figure Q3(c) by Z, M, and X) can influence the
         response or quality characteristic of the product. List any two of them. [2]

                     Page 42 of 54
                  Figure Q3(c)

(vii)        Assume the product engineer collect 10 observation (test results) from

one product's quality characteristic (nominal the best). If the target point for

this quality characteristic is 8.5, compute the Taguchi loss function for this set

of data (assume constant  = 1 is the associated loss function formulation).

             [3]

       Observation No. 1 = 8.100

       Observation No. 2 = 8.900

       Observation No. 3 = 8.450

       Observation No. 4 = 9.250

       Observation No. 5 = 8.860

       Observation No. 6 = 8.350

       Observation No. 7 = 8.250

       Observation No. 8 = 8.680

       Observation No. 9 = 8.900

       Observation No. 10 = 9.050

(s) Six-sigma is a statistical concept that measures a process in terms of defects ­ at the six
    sigma level, there are 3.4 defects per million opportunities:

(iii) What is Critical-to-Quality (CTQ)?  [2]

(iv) A manufacturing process produces a new product with an upper and lower

       specified length of 20 ±1 mm. The process has a mean diameter of 19.8 mm

       and a standard deviation of 0.2 mm. Calculate the process capability index

       Cpk.                               [3]

                  Page 43 of 54
Q4

    (a) Derive the theoretical break-even point relationship in terms of fixed costs,

    variable costs, and selling price.                                    [3]

    You work for ABC manufacturing company that supplies the industry with Wi-Fi
    routers. The company has an annual production capacity of 45,000 routers. Your
    production cost breakdown for 45,000 routers is shown in Table Q4 below.

    Table Q4: Cost breakdown for 45,000 routers

               Cost category                 Annual Cost (RMB)

    Direct Materials                                             405,000
    Direct Labour                                                225,000
    Variable Overhead                                             45,000
    Fixed Overhead Cost                                          562,500
                                                              1,237,500
                    Total

    An outside supplier has approached your company and offered to supply the Wi-Fi
    routers to your company for 27.5 RMB each. Your manager has asked you to carry out
    an analysis of this offer. He advises you that the Fixed Overhead Costs for the
    production facilities will NOT be avoided if you purchase the routers from this outside
    supplier as your company has no other use for the vacant production facilities if you
    purchase from the outside supplier.

    (b) Draw a table comparing the cost of making the routers internally on a per router

    basis with the costs of purchasing the routers from the outside supplier. Do you

    recommend that your company purchases from an outside supplier?       [5]

    (c) Your manager now tells you he can rent out the production facilities for 570,000

    RMB per year. Given this new information, prepare a new cost table showing

    the impact of the facilities rental. Does this information change your

    recommendation on whether to purchase from an outside supplier?       [5]

    (d) Utilising the information provided in Table Q4, if your company can sell the

    Wi-Fi routers for 40.00 RMB each, draw a table showing the production costs

    and sales revenue of manufacturing and selling router quantities from 10,000

     30,000 routers in 5000 router increments.                            [5]

    (e) If the factory is running at full capacity of 45,000 routers per year with an

    assumed price of 40.00 RMB per router, what is the profit made by the

    company? Also, calculate the safety margin for this scenario.         [3]

    (f) Draw a Breakeven graph showing Total Cost (TC), Variable cost (VC), Fixed

    Cost (FC), and Revenue (REV) against production quantity (Q). Calculate the

    Breakeven Point and indicate this on the graph.                       [5]

                              Page 44 of 54
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         SAMPLE SET 6

Section A: Multiple Choice Questions

Q1 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs): There are 12 MCQs. You are provided with five
         options to each question (A, B, C, D, or E). ONLY one of the five is the correct answer
         for each question.

(1.1) Design for Manufacturing (DFM) is an important part of any product

development cycle (e.g., initial design, final design, fabrication, production, and

product launch). Which item below is correct about when to apply DFM in the

initial design or production stage?            [2]

F. Applying the DFM in an initial design stage provides a higher impact with
    lower cost compared with the production stage.

G. Applying the DFM in an initial design stage provides a higher impact but
    higher cost compared with the production stage.

H. Applying the DFM in a production stage provides a higher impact with
    lower cost compared with the initial design stage.

I. Applying the DFM in a production stage provides a higher impact but
    higher cost compared with the initial design stage.

J. Applying the DFM in both stages can provide the same impact with the
    same amount of required cost.

(1.2) There is a variety of actionable sustainable design principles that can be
         implemented to create better designs. Some of them are below except: [2]
         F. Dematerialization.
         G. Migration to product-service systems.
         H. Limit or eliminate long-distance outsourcing.
         I. Design for a shorter period of usage.

       J. Invest in simulation.

(1.3) The cost of quality can be categorized into four categories: Prevention Cost,

Appraisal Cost, Internal Failure Cost, and External Failure Cost. Which item

below is not classified as an appraisal cost?  [2]

Page 45 of 54
A. Test and inspection (receiving, in-process, and final)
B. Supplier acceptance sampling
C. Product Audits
D. Equipment upgrades
E. Calibration

(1.4) Project A has an NPV of $1.2 million; Project B has a BCR of 1.035; Project C

has an IRR of -0.03 percent. Which of these projects appears to be most

attractive?                                                                [2]

F. Project A is the most attractive.

G. Project B is the most attractive.

H. Project C is the most attractive.

I. All three projects A, B, and C are most attractive equally to execute.

J. It is uncertain which project is the most attractive to execute based on the
    provided information.

(1.5) SWOT is a technique used in project management, mainly for which item

below?                                                                     [2]

F. Silver Whisker Optimization Technique.

G. A tool or technique used in identifying risks.

H. A tool or technique for structured ranking of cusses/effects.

I. A graphic view of relative probabilities.

J. None of the above.

(1.6) Silver Springs Financial Services is migrating servers as part of a data center

exit project, triggered by a need to slash costs - the fallout of a recent rogue

trading fiasco. The project manager's EVM report today shows a CPI of 1.1 and

an SPI of 0.9. What should we understand from this?                        [2]

F. Trading controls need to be tightened.

G. The project is under budget and behind schedule.

H. The project is over budget.

I. The project is ahead of schedule.

J. Choices of C&D

                       Page 46 of 54
(1.7) In a Profit and Loss (Income) statement, Earnings before Interest, Tax,

Depreciation, and Amortisation (EBITA) is equal to:  [2]

A ­ Total Sales minus Cost of Sales

B ­ Total Expenses minus Net Profit

C ­ Total Sales minus (Salaries + Rent)

D ­ Gross Profit minus all company operating expenses (salaries and rent etc.)

E ­ Full production costs minus Net Profit

(1.8) If a company has an organisational structure as shown below in Figure Q1(1.3),

it is called:                                        [2]

                             Figure Q1(1.3)

A ­ A Team-Based Structure
B ­ A Matrix Structure
C ­ A Divisional Structure
D ­ A Simple Startup Structure
E ­ A Military Command Structure

                              Page 47 of 54
(1.9) A Sole Trader Company is:                                             [2]

A ­ A business you run as an individual. You can keep all your business' profits
     after you have paid tax on them. You are personally responsible for any
     losses your business makes.

B ­ A business in which you and your business partner (or partners) personally
     share responsibility for your business. You can share all your business's
     profits between the partners. Each partner pays tax on their share of the
     profits.

C ­ A company whose shares can be freely traded on the stock market.

D ­ An organisation you can set up to avoid paying tax or having any
    responsibility as a director.

E ­ An organisation you can set up to run your business- it is responsible for
     everything it does, and its finances are separate from your personal
     finances. Any profit it makes is owned by the company after it
     pays Corporation Tax. The company can then share its profits amongst its
     shareholders.

(1.10) In a simple Lease­or-Buy calculation, you require a radar equipment for a

project. The cost to buy the equipment is 30,000 RMB plus an additional 500

RMB per day. You are able to lease the equipment from a local company at a

cost of 2000 RMB per day. What is the maximum length of time you can lease

the equipment before it is cheaper to buy the equipment?                    [2]

A ­ 3 days

B ­ 10 days

C ­ 20 days

D ­ 30 days

E ­ 16.333 days

(1.11) What is a Profit & Loss (Income) statement?                          [2]

A ­ It only summarises all the sales revenues for the financial year

B ­ It only summarises all the payments or expenses for the financial year

                 Page 48 of 54
C ­ It is only used when the company makes a loss

D ­ It summarises the sales revenues, payments, and expenses for the financial
         year

E ­ It is only used when the company makes a profit

(1.12) If a company is described as having a `Defender (i.e. market leader or stable

market)' Strategic Posture, it displays the following characteristics:  [2]

Emphasis Market Focus Structure and Process Technology

A - Pioneering      Aggressively    Organic: informal,        Contingent,
       changes      explore and     decentralised, and        multiple,
       and          exploit new     flexible                  prototypical
       innovation   market                                    technologies;
                    opportunities   Mechanistic:              low degree of
B - Stability                       hierarchical,             routinisation
       and          Maintain a      centralised, and control  and
       efficiency   small niche                               mechanisation
                                    Matrix organisation ­     One core
C - Balanced:       Defend core     coalition between core    highly cost-
       minimised    business while  functions                 efficient
       risks and    cautiously                                technology
       maximise     exploit proven  Maintain whatever         Dual core
       profits      new markets     structure is in place;    with emphasis
                    by imitating    often a weak link with    on applied
D - Reluctant       Prospectors     strategy, which is        research
       to act due   Unsure          unclear
       to                                                     Unsure
       instability  Aggressively    Organic: informal,
       and          explore and     decentralised, and        Dual core
       uncertainty  exploit new     flexible                  with emphasis
                    market                                    on applied
E - Stability       opportunities                             research
       and
       efficiency

                    Page 49 of 54
Section B: Long Questions

Q2

    (a) You are a project manager working on China's high-speed railway. You need
             to install a major new piece of electrical equipment into a new station that is
             being built at Chengdu's new airport. The only way to install the new equipment
             is to hire a tower crane to lift it into position. As the project manager, you have
             collected all the information and tasks required to build a tower crane on the
             station site and recorded the tasks in Table Q2(a).

    Table Q2(a): Tower Crane tasks and durations.

      Task             Task Description       Duration          Predecessors
    Number                                     (days)
            Project Start (Milestone)              0                   0
        0   Specify Crane                          3                   1
        1   Survey Site                            4                   1
        2   Survey Power Supply                    3                   2
        3   Select Site                            1                  3,4
        4   Order Tower Crane                      2                   5
        5   Arrange Transport                      4                   5
        6   Order Mobile Erector Crane             3                   5
        7   Install Concrete Plinth                5                 6,7,8
        8   Confirm Site Access                    1                   9
        9   Get Mobile Erector Crane on Site       4                   9
       10   Crane Parts on Site                    5                10,11
       11   Install Crane Base                     2                  12
       12   Install Tower & Crane Head             1                10,11
       13   Assemble Jib                           2                13,14
       14   Install Jib                            1                  15
       15   Install counterweight                  1                  16
       16   Apply Crane Power                      1                  17
       17   Test Crane                             1                  18
       18   Project end                            0
       19

    Show the above information on a Network diagram showing each task duration

    and the interdependencies of each task.                             [8]

    (b) Using the obtained Network diagram:

    (ii) List the critical path tasks in the order they occur.          [3]

    (ii) Calculate the project's overall duration (show your working).  [2]

                           Page 50 of 54
(iii) If Task 8 (Install Concrete Plinth) cannot be started until the `Mobile

Erector Crane' has been ordered (Task 7) has been completed. Calculate

the new project duration and describe how this change impacts the

critical path.                      [2]

(c) Figure Q2(c) shows five process groups (developed by PMI) that lead to a
         systematic approach to project management including initiating processes,
         planning processes, executing processes, controlling processes, and closing
         processes. Assume you are a member of a student team developing a mobile
         study app, answer the following questions accordingly.

                      Figure Q2(c)

(i) At this time, the team is managing changes and recommending actions

as needed, overseeing project activities against the plan, and ensuring

only approved modifications are implemented. In which process group

is the team currently operating?    [1]

(ii) At this time, the team outlines strategies and tactics for project

completion, identifies potential risks, and documents the execution

processes for the project. In which process group is the team currently

operating?                          [1]

(iii) At this time, the team clarifies the project's purpose and scope to the
         stakeholders. In which process group is the team currently operating?
                                                                                           [1]

(iv) At this time, the team is ensuring all project tasks are completed across

different stages, obtaining approval from stakeholders to formally

conclude the project phase, and updating project documents as

necessary for future reference. In which process group is the team

currently operating?                [1]

                Page 51 of 54
    (d) Leadership and Management are two concepts in project management that can

    differ in several important aspects. Identify and compare three main differences

    between these two concepts.                                        [3]

    (e) In a project, the Planned Value (PV) is $10,000, the Earned Value (EV) is
             $8,500, and the Actual Cost (AC) is $8,000.

    (i) Calculate the Schedule Performance Index (SPI) for this project. [1]

    (ii) Calculate the Cost Performance Index (CPI) for this project.  [1]

    (iii) Based on the obtained SPI and CPI, what do you infer regarding the

    performance of this project so far?                                [1]

Q3

    (t) Design For Manufacturing (DFM) consists of some main principles such as Simplicity,
        Standardization, Tolerance, Material Selection, Automation, and Process Integration.

    (i) In the context of Six Sigma methodologies, explain how Poka-yoke can

    contribute to process improvement. Provide a specific example of a Poka-

    yoke mechanism that could be implemented in a laboratory setting

    involving the use of LEDs.                                         [4]

    (ii) A manufacturer is producing a specific type of resistor with a target

    resistance of 12 ohms and a tolerance of ±2 ohms. To assess the

    manufacturing process's capability to meet specifications, the manufacturer

    measures the resistance of a sample of resistors and computes the Cp and

    Cpk indices. Given that the sample of resistors has an average resistance of

    12.2 ohms and a standard deviation of 0.5 ohms, evaluate both process

    capability indicators for this manufacturing operation.            [4]

    (iii) The 4Rs are highly effective tools in establishing a circular economy for

    sustainable products. Comprising four principles applicable to almost every

    individual, these principles have an exponential impact. Name any two of

    these principles.                                                  [2]

    (u) Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques to
        project activities to meet the project requirements.

    (iv) Project managers should have three key skill sets (Talent Triangle). Select

    and explain briefly any two of these skills.                       [4]

    (v) What is the term used to describe the process of developing a detailed

    description of the project and product, often represented as a hierarchical

    decomposition of the project scope?                                [1]

    (vi) Sarah is overseeing the development of a new electronic device prototype.
            After collaborating with the team, they arrive at a most likely estimate of 12

                       Page 52 of 54
    weeks for the total project duration. In the best-case scenario, they anticipate

    a potential reduction of three weeks due to efficient collaboration with a

    specialized component supplier. However, there's a risk of a delay in

    obtaining critical components that could extend the project pessimistically

    by four weeks. Using three-point estimating, calculate the expected duration

    based on Triangular Distribution and Beta Distribution separately, and

    determine the standard deviation of these estimates.                      [4]

    (vii) You are managing a team of 6 members and once the project enters the next

    phase, three more members are added and two of the current team members

    leave. How many new communication channels need to be added due to

    these changes?                                                            [3]

    (viii) In conflict management, understanding various techniques is crucial, e.g.,

    Withdraw/Avoid, Smooth/Accommodate, Compromise/Reconcile,

    Force/Competing, and Collaborate/Problem Solve. Among the

    aforementioned techniques identify which method raises a win-win

    situation where both sides benefit, which results in a lose-lose scenario for

    both parties, and which method leads to a situation where neither side gains

    nor loses?                                                                [3]

Q4

    (a) Derive the theoretical break-even revenue relationship in terms of fixed costs,

    variable costs, and selling price.                                        [3]

    You work for XYZ, a company that requires 17,500 optical transceivers annually to
    manufacture its optical wireless communication (OWC) systems. These optical
    transceivers are supplied by an external supplier to your company for 57 RMB each.
    Moreover, your company has some vacant production facilities that adds to the total
    annual costs with Fixed Overhead Cost of 568,750 RMB. Currently, the vacant
    production facilities are rented out for 225,000 RMB per year but your manager has
    informed you that the rental agreement is nearing an end soon.

    (b) Draw a table comparing the equivalent cost of purchasing a transceiver from

    the external supplier while the vacant production facilities are rented out with

    the scenario when the rental agreement has expired.                       [5]

    (c) Your manager now tells you he wants to utilise the vacant production facilities
             and manufacture the transceivers within the company. In addition to the Fixed
             Overhead Cost, the production cost breakdown for a transceiver is shown in
             Table Q4(c) below.

    Table Q4(c): Cost breakdown for a transceiver

               Cost Category            Cost per Transceiver (RMB)

    Direct Materials                                                  22.50
    Direct Labour                                                     12.50
    Variable Overhead
                                                                        2.50

                              Page 53 of 54
Given this new information, prepare a new cost table showing the annual impact

of manufacturing the transceivers within the production facilities available in

the company. Should your company continue purchasing the transceivers from

the external supplier or start manufacturing their own transceivers?  [5]

(d) Using the information provided in Table Q4(c), if your company can sell the

optical transceivers for 78.125 RMB each, draw a table showing the production

costs and sales revenue of manufacturing and selling transceiver quantities from

3,500  17,500 transceivers in 3,500 transceiver increments.           [5]

(e) If the factory is running at full capacity of 17,500 transceivers per year with an

assumed price of 78.125 RMB per transceiver, what is the profit made by the

company? What is the safety margin for this scenario?                 [3]

(f) Draw a Breakeven graph showing Total Cost (TC), Variable cost (VC), Fixed

Cost (FC), and Revenue (REV) against production quantity (Q). Calculate the

Breakeven Point and indicate this on the graph.                       [5]

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page 54 of 54
