SOURCE: /Users/zhoushengye/Desktop/课程/笔记/封装/final_exam/notes/lecture7.docx
TYPE: DOCX
(101条消息) 一篇文章读懂SIP与SOC封装技术_半导体 sip_remus005 的博客 -CSDN 博 客 SiP 和SoC对比：SoC性能（performance）好（but very high design and prototyping cost, long development cycle time ）， SiP 开发周期短，设计和原型成本低 3 D封装 3D packaging 超薄芯片封装 The UTCP can be used independently or serves as an interposer, which can be further embedded inside PCB or FCB (flexible circuit board) and replace the needs for directly embedding of bare die. The KGD problem is solved, because the functionality of UTCP can be easily tested before embedding it in the main board. 单芯 片晶圆级封装 s ingle-chip wafer-level packaging: single-chip WLP 约等于C SP but WLP 本身与C SP 不 同 Difference: the packaging assembly process. Single-chip WLPs are made using wafer- level packaging technology in which the interconnection bumping and testing is performed on the wafer. 要求： (1) ultra-low-cost, 便宜 (2) thin, light, and portable, 薄，轻，便携 (3) very high performance, 高性能 (4) diverse functions involving a variety of semiconductor chips and packaging, 多功能 and (5) user friendliness. 用户友好型 Q 1 What is the difference between CSP, Flip Chip and Wafer-level Packaging? SMT: surface mount technology A single chip package (SCP) is a package that supports a single microelectronic device so that its electrical, mechanical, thermal, and chemical performance needs are adequately served. 单芯片封装 (SCP) 是一种支持单个微电子设备的封装，以便充分满足其电气，机械，热和化学性能需求。 C SP SCP chip-scale packaging offers a more compact and space-efficient solution compared to traditional single-chip packaging Q4: P15 题目： What is the major argument and challenge with high–density three–dimensional wafer-level packaging in the industry in near future? Explain the concept of single-chip package (SCP), and analysis the single-chip microelectronics packaging improvement trends using proper graph. （1） P17: Argument: Lower cost and higher performance cannot be achieved without major changes in architecture, materials and manufacturing processes. Today, these new technologies include SiP , wafer level packaging (WLP), wafer thinning, and through silicon vias (TSVs). In the near future, we will see additional changes with the incorporation of nanomaterials. Challenge: High-density three-dimensional (3D) packaging of complete functional blocks has become the major challenge in the industry:  RF System-in-Package ( SiP ) applications have become the technology driver for small components, packaging, assembly processes, and high-density substrates.  The use of motion-gesture sensors in various consumer and portable devices has expanded the MEMS  Performance requirements such as increased bandwidth and lower power are driving 3D integrated circuits (ICs) designed with through silicon vias (TSV). （2） Single-chip packaging concept ( 这个概念包含) from wire-bond to flip-chip ball grid array to wafer-level packaging (fan-in and fan out). three key technologies: (1) plastic ball grid arrays (PBGAs), (2) ceramic column grid arrays (CGAs or CCGAs), and (3) and smaller foot-print wafer-level packages. PBGAs and chip scale packages (CSPs) are widely used in portable and telecommunication products. W LP 概念 WLP is IC packaging formed at the wafer level on the wafer in the wafer foundry. Wafer-level packaging provides many benefits—the two most important being lowest cost and smallest size. 七 大benefits ( cost, size, electrical performance and reliability. ) 1. 小尺寸 Providing the smallest system size, because it is truly a chip size package 2. 连续互联 Enabling interconnect continuum from IC to PWB because of thin-film processing 3. 封装 便宜 Reduced cost of packaging, because all the connections are done at wafer level 4. 测试便宜 Reduced cost of testing, because testing is done at the wafer level once for all ICs 5. 烧录？便宜 Reduced cost of burn-in, because the burn-in is done at the wafer level once 6. 消除underfill Elimination of underfill because of compliancy of the leads or other ways to achieve reliability 7 . 增强电气性能 Improved electrical performance because of short lead lengths The two most important factors driving the WLP are size benefits for portable products and cost benefits for all products. 三大disadvantages 1 . interconnection must be located at active area high IOs small solder balls & tight pitch 2 . require very high density PWB, 贵 3 . 从5 00 微米pitch到1 00 微米pitch，需要2 5 微米光刻工艺，v ery large board 4 . P2 2: Another limitation of WLP is the number of I/O count. Since the package area and ball pitch are confined, the total number of I/O count is normally no more than 100 W LP reliability thermal fatigue lifetime of a solder joint is proportional to the square of the bump height or standoff. 正比于高度的平方 （Q3） The solder ball pad is routed within the chip outline from the chip perimeter contact pad, which is so called a “fan-in” design. 焊锡球垫从芯片周边接触垫在芯片轮廓内布线 P rocess: Die Packaging: the idea is to embed components inside the substrate using a multi-step manufacturing process. “Packaging” is defined as the bridge that interconnects the ICs and other components into a system-level board to form electronic products. Photonic crystals, also known as photonic bandgap materials, are periodic nanostructures. Photonic crystal basics is the periodic arrangements of two materials with different index of refraction. Ball Grid Array (BGA) are the only choice for packages with higher than 300 I/O counts, replacing leaded packages such as the quad flat pack (QFP). Q 2: 说 七 大优势即可 Q5 IO 数量大，wafer和I C 面积小
