SOURCE: /Users/zhoushengye/Desktop/课程/笔记/封装/final_exam/超超整理/L6.docx
TYPE: DOCX
L6 Why thermal management is important in the microelectronic packaging? 为什么热管理在微电子封装中很重要？ Discuss briefly about the heat flow across solid interfaces, heat flow from solid to fluid for the case of convection and thermal radiation. 简要讨论对流，辐射情况下固体界面间的热流，固体到流体的热流 什么是热管理： - Electrical resistance within a semiconductor device generates internal heat during operation. - Without cooling, the temperature of the device would continually rise, leading to electronic malfunction or physical damage. - Contacting the device with a lower temperature medium helps facilitate heat dissipation. - Cooling moderates the temperature rise, eventually reaching a stable and acceptable operating temperature. - Heat transfer mechanisms involved in electronics cooling include thermal conduction, convection, radiation, and phase change processes. 为什么要热管理： - Thermal management of microelectronic components is driven by similar concerns and a shared hierarchy of design considerations. - The primary objective is to prevent catastrophic failure, which involves the immediate and complete loss of electronic function and package integrity. - Understanding the vulnerability of the specific component(s) helps in selecting the right fluid, heat transfer mode, and coolant temperature for an effective thermal control strategy. - Early consideration of thermal control during the design process is crucial to establish the required measures for preventing catastrophic failure. 热管理基础： - Understanding heat transfer mechanisms is crucial for determining temperature differences in electronic systems. - Multiple mechanisms, operating in series or parallel, are often required to remove heat from microcircuits or chips and transfer it to the coolant or heat sink. - The three primary thermal transport modes in electronic cooling are conduction (including contact resistance), convection, and radiation. 固体界面间的热流(热传导Conduction)： Heat transfer across an interface, formed by the joining of two solids, is usually accompanied by a measurable temperature difference, which can be associated with a contact or interface resistance. 热对流（convention）： The transfer of heat from a solid to a fluid in motion occurs by a mode termed convection. Convective heat transfer presumes a linear dependence of heat flow on the temperature difference between the surface and fluid, and is referred to as Newton’s Law of Cooling. 热辐射（radiation）： Radiation heat transfer occurs as a result of the emission and absorption of the energy contained in electromagnetic waves or photons. Thermal radiation can occur across a vacuum or any medium that is transparent to infrared wavelengths (typically larger than 1 micron). 散热技术： - Convective thermal resistance can be reduced by increasing the heat transfer coefficient or the heat transfer area. - Increasing the heat transfer area is the only way to decrease convective thermal resistance. - Extended surfaces or fins, as shown in Figure 6.6, are used to increase the heat transfer area. - The rectangular fin in Figure 6.6 has dimensions of height L, width W, and thickness. - The fin is exposed to a convection heat transfer coefficient h. - Tb represents the temperature of the base surface, and Ta represents the ambient temperature. 散热技术： Jet Impingement Cooling Immersion Cooling Thermoelectric Cooling
